on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i join with you and others in utterly condemning what has happened and in sympathising with the families and friends of those affected. it was quite something to see millions of people on the streets of paris and elsewhere – sincere, worried, and, in some cases, very frightened people. however, there were also 40 significant, important political leaders, and they too were using the language of unity and solidarity; but i am afraid, for them, ‘je suis charlie’ is simply not enough, because we need now to have an honest admission that, actually, our political decisions have led to much of what has happened. just think about foreign policy: from afghanistan, through iraq to libya, and even the attempt to seek to arm the rebels in syria. we were told that all of this was done to make our streets safer. in fact, what we have done is to stir up very deep resentment within much of the muslim community, and it has had the very opposite of the desired effect. we have pursued policies of mass immigration at a rate that has made it frankly impossible for many new communities to integrate. for that, i think, we have to hold our hands up. perhaps worst of all, we have been guilty of weakness, of lack of courage and of a lack of assertion in who we are as people, and we have turned a blind eye within many of our minority communities to practices that would not be tolerated in the rest of the population. indeed, we have allowed preachers of hate to go around saying things that are totally unacceptable. the result of all this is that we have, i am sad to say, a fifth column that is living within our own countries and is utterly opposed to our values. how we deal with that problem is vital for the future. we must embrace the vast majority of muslims, who themselves are horrified at the civil war that is going on within islam. but unless we are prepared to admit our own culpability in much of what has happened, we are not going to be able to find solutions. i would suggest for the future, however, that we are going to have to be a lot braver and a lot more courageous in standing up for our judeo-christian culture. (applause from the right)
madam president, we are told that we must stay in the eu because of jobs. well, tell that to 220 of my constituents who lost their jobs when tilbury power station closed in 2013. the large combustion plant directive has forced the closure of the plants in the uk that provide us with a third of our energy. all of this was done while ed miliband was secretary of state at the department of energy and climate change. my residents in thurrock need to ask mr miliband and his candidate in thurrock, who worked for him at the time, why they did nothing to save those jobs. together you have cost jobs in my community. the days of labour looking out for working people in my constituency and my country are long gone. you have forgotten about communities like tilbury and the people of thurrock. in may you will be judged by your actions, because ukip is standing up for working people in the united kingdom.
madam president, i want to raise in the chamber this evening the appalling crime of human trafficking and, in particular, the distressing subject of child trafficking. human trafficking is the fastest growing criminal industry in the world; it is the second largest source of illegal income worldwide, 1.2 million people are trafficked every year globally, and it is estimated that 27 to 35 million people worldwide are trapped in a life of slavery. that is just short of the entire population of poland. i want to commend the work of tearfund with their ‘no child taken’ campaign, which tackles this issue head on. by focusing on 50 000 of the most vulnerable children, helping through education and vocational training and equipping them with skills which can lift them out of poverty, it is hoped that this will help keep those children safe from trafficking. in conclusion, a child is trafficked every 30 seconds. in the time i have been speaking tonight, two children will have fallen prey to traffickers. we have to work together to tackle this appalling crime and to ensure that children are protected across the world.
blue-card question. – i wonder: would you agree with me that what we have seen from mr renzi today is a virtuoso performance with absolutely wild ideas and arrogance beyond words when describing the people who oppose him? or maybe you agree with him that people like me – who are just poor brutes and who do not have the opportunity to have a democratic point of view – should maybe be quiet in the face of such civilised and learned people and not bother representing the people who voted for us?
blue-card question. – do you not agree with me, mr renzi, that the italian presidency will be remembered only for two things: the collapse of the euro and the potential exit of greece and italy and, of course, the luxleaks scandal, which has been dogging this presidency?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the overall agreement broadly reflects the commission’s original intention: that member states should have the option to decide whether or not to cultivate gmos. the intention was to unblock the wholly unjustified failure to grant final approval of gmos by the commission. in other words, we are now present at the final act in a long and expensive process initiated simply to avoid repeated exposure of the commission’s lack of political courage. on a more optimistic note, this does show that eu competences as defined by the treaties are not absolute, and i look forward to such flexibility being shown in other areas as my prime minister continues his negotiations to reform the eu. of course, as with all controversial proposals, the devil is in the detail. there are many details here which i find unacceptable. the agreement will permit member states to proceed directly to national bans post-union authorisation, rather than first seeking a more legally-sound opt-out from authorisation, as initially proposed. it allows for national bans to apply to groups of gmos, rather than on a case-by-case basis, and fails to completely rule out the possibility of member states citing environmental and public health grounds for national bans. this conflicts with the efsa risk assessment process, whereby the environmental and public health risks of gmos are examined on a case-by-case basis prior to union authorisation. on principle, i cannot accept a proposal which allows for the scientific assessment of gmos to be undermined in this way. the european parliament’s negotiating position on this file has led to this unsatisfactory outcome. based on a disproportionate demonisation of gmos along the ‘frankenstein foods’ lines promoted in the tabloid press, members are cutting off a route to higher yields, lower pesticide use and less use of water, and denying access to new-generation gmos, such as omega-3-rich camelina, which will have widespread health benefits. i hope that the cobbled-together, legally-fragile compromise that parliament has promoted will be robust and that the authorisations will start to flow. member states that want to continue to develop european agriculture as the best in the world are holding their breath, counting on this not being just a charter to ban, but also a key to unlock progress.
blue-card question. – do you agree with me that it is absolutely disgraceful to block 50 amendments all together under one vote when some of the amendments actually contradict one another? for example, amendment 20 genuinely gives some power back to the member states, whereas many of the other amendments actually make that impossible. do you think this is a wrong or a right way to produce legislation?
blue-card question. – mr stuger, do you agree not only that it is an incorrect procedure to be discussing in this place the nation states and what they do with their crops, but also that there is a lack of information for the people about this particular subject that would enable them to advise their representatives so that we can truly be democratic? so do you agree with me that there is a great democratic deficit in this debate, and in all debates we have here?
blue-card question. – my question is quite simple: at what point, in either this regulation or the proposals that you have, is it absolutely clear that you can ban gmo products? surely the very nature of this proposal, and of the compromise you have put forward, makes it obscure and unclear, and makes it impossible for the public in europe to say with absolute certainty that there will be no gmo products. this is once again an eu mess-up in an eu directive that impacts on the european people.
madam president, i am against this proposal because i have always worked for a gm-free wales in a gm-free europe. this is the latest attempt to get more gm authorisations agreed at european level by putting the decision to ban gmos in the hands of individual governments. in theory this could be appealing for a country like wales, where agriculture is devolved. wales was a founding member of the gm-free regions network. we do not have the same policy as the uk government on gm crops. we are proud of our high-quality agricultural produce and we do not want to see that jeopardised. this proposal would open the door to gm crops in europe, with real risks of cross-contamination. increasing gm authorisations in europe would also send a signal to the rest of the world that gmos are becoming more acceptable. this is certainly not the case for my constituents in wales.
madam president, the idea of national opt-outs from gmo regulation is unworkable and ignores the wish of the vast majority of eu citizens that our continent should remain gm-free. the new system would allow countries whose governments are more subject to lobbying from agribusinesses – and i am ashamed to say that my country is one of those – to introduce gm crops as a trojan horse to undermine the eu ban on this dangerous technology. they will be allowing their own priorities to work against the desires and wishes of other eu citizens. for this reason, the proposal is inherently inimical to the single market and to european unity. before we vote on this proposal we should ask ourselves how we come to be here. we are not voting on an end to the gm moratorium because of lobbying from our constituents. i have not received a single e-mail from my constituents in the south-west calling for more gm crops. we have arrived here because of relentless, high-powered, well-funded lobbying by the biotech corporations, who have no interest in our welfare and are simply interested in swelling their own profits, even at a risk to public health. citizens across europe have rejected gm, and we must continue to respect their view and condemn the specious arguments and profiteering instincts of the agricultural corporations.
madam president, the report we are about to vote on today represents a balanced compromise that takes both the science and the views of the public into account. it provides for a strengthened environmental impact assessment on new gmos. furthermore, it requires member states which choose to cultivate gmos to introduce co-existence measures for border areas. this should be good news for the fast-growing, environmentally-friendly and job-creating sector of organic agriculture, which cannot afford contamination with gm crops. it strikes the labour party that the british conservatives are opposed to the proposed exclusion of biotech companies from the decision-making process. this only shows once again that the tories remain in the hands of big business lobbyists and have little regard for the views of the general public, little regard for the consumer and little regard for common sense.
in writing. — in essence, this agreement allows the european union to pay money to fish the waters of a much poorer country. this seems to me to be unjust and exploitative.
in writing. — not only has the eu managed to strip our own waters of fish stocks (not to mention discarding thousands of tons of perfectly healthy fish), but it is now seeking to do the same throughout the rest of the world – by giving money to the wealthy in order to get fishing rights from poor fishermen. this is just neocolonial exploitation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of renewing the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of são tomé and príncipe because i believe that establishing sustainable fisheries policies in sao toméan fishing zones is in all our interests. i welcome the fact that, through the newly negotiated protocol, more reliable data on catches and the conservation status of fishery resources will be made available to the são toméan authorities, enabling them to scale up the fight against illegal fishing. i urge the commission to investigate carefully concerns regarding by-catch of sharks or other endangered species under the protocol, and to take the necessary steps immediately to address this problem if it occurs.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report. the rapporteur, however, noted that to date there has been a lack of data in this fishery, and he has called on the commission to remedy this situation. he has also called for greater efforts to be made in developing são toméan fisheries infrastructure. i fully back these calls.
in writing. — i supported the agreement, as it is simply a renewal of an expired protocol that strengthens cooperation between the parties. establishing sustainable fisheries policies is also crucial, especially in terms of fighting illegal fishing.
in writing. — i voted for this report. the fisheries partnership agreement, alongside other instruments providing development support, such as the european development fund, should foster the genuinely sustainable development of the são toméan fisheries sector and of related industries and activities, so that more of the added value resulting from the exploitation of são tomé’s natural resources remains in the country.
in writing. — i voted in favour of supporting the agreement as it provides continued opportunities for fisheries cooperation with são tomé, with the addition of more reliable data (on catches and on the conservation status of fishery resources) being made available to the são toméan authorities.
in writing. — today i voted in support of the conclusion of the new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. it will cover a four-year period from 23 may 2014 and provide fishing opportunities for 34 eu vessels. the annual financial contribution was set at eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year. the main purpose of the protocol to the agreement is to grant fishing opportunities to european union vessels in são toméan waters. in addition, the protocol will strengthen cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe with a view to establishing a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in são toméan fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. — in essence, this agreement allows the european union to pay money to fish the waters of a much poorer country. this seems to me to be unjust and exploitative.
in writing. — not only has the eu managed to strip our own waters of fish stocks (not to mention discarding thousands of tons of perfectly healthy fish), but it is now seeking to do the same throughout the rest of the world. by giving money to the wealthy political class of the seychelles, in order to get fishing rights from the poor fishermen, the eu is just participating in neocolonial exploitation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cadec report because i believe the eu-seychelles agreement is an important tool for increasing development opportunities for mayotte and the seychelles. crucial in gaining my support was the fact that the agreement complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy on preserving resources.
in writing. — mayotte’s entry into the eu as an overseas department of france has resulted in anomalies in the current access regime to their territorial waters. this report seeks to rectify the situation and i voted in favour.
in writing. — i supported the agreement, as it is beneficial for the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and it complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy with regard to the preservation of resources.
in writing. — i voted for this agreement. this access agreement is strategically important in view of the migratory nature of the tuna resource. it also responds to a request from the republic of the seychelles for reciprocity in the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa), with an agreement that enables seychelles vessel owners to fish in european waters. this agreement will help to maintain the privileged relations between the european union and the republic of the seychelles.
in writing. — the current eu-seychelles agreement is the eu’s most important agreement in the indian ocean, which makes the seychelles the eu’s leading partner in the region. the renewed agreement benefits both parties in that it is beneficial for the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and it complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy with regard to the preservation of resources.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on the report entitled ‘protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the ec and tunisia to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu’. i did so because much of the euro-mediterranean agreement is effectively a classic free-trade agreement, which imposes liberalisation and privatisation on the people of the country concerned, and about which i have serious concerns. however, although i do not favour the euro-mediterranean agreement itself, it does already exist and this vote only amends it to allow for the accession of romania and bulgaria, which i recognise. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. — this is a technical amendment, but given that my constituents elected me on a mandate of withdrawal from the eu it would be hypocritical for me to do anything other than vote against.
in writing. — association agreements are a half-way house to full eu membership. however, as the eu has not been able to get its own house in order as of yet, with mass unemployment and a plummeting euro, further expansionism is folly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it essentially concerns a purely technical adaptation of the text of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states and the republic of tunisia, made to reflect the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. — i supported concluding the protocol, as it establishes the rules enabling tunisia to participate in certain union programmes.
in writing. — i supported this report on an agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the draft recommendation as it gives the european parliament’s consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the ec and tunisia, establishing rules enabling the republic of tunisia to participate in certain union programmes.
in writing. — i voted in support of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states and tunisia, to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the most important aspects of the protocol are the provisions for the accession of the new member states to the eu-tunisia association agreement, and the inclusion of the new official languages of the eu, to take account of the enlargement of the eu.
in writing. — it is the duty of the british government and the british department for transport to write our own legislation, and it is not for the eu to meddle.
in writing. — i supported the request to have a consultation in order to underline how important sustainable mobility is in relation to jobs, growth and tackling climate change in europe.
in writing. — i supported this request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: taking stock and way forward towards sustainable mobility’.
madam president, if we are to feed the world’s growing population and combat weather changes and diseases, then we must harness the best science in crop areas. the stalemate on gm has gone on for far too long, and for that reason i support this vote, which returns decision-making to member states. the region i represent has some of the best crop scientists in the world: in cambridge, at john innes, where they have invented blight-free potatoes, and at rothamsted with their aphid-resisting wheat. crops that will reduce the need for chemicals but help feed the population. it would have been best to have a science-led solution across the single market, but given that this has been stuck for so long, we must allow those countries that support science to move forward.
madam president, when it comes to gmos, we all want sensible decisions to be based on scientific evidence. not all the countries here in the eu want to base their decisions on the hard evidence, but this vote today will allow member states to make their own decisions on gm crops. the uk will see decision-making returned to it from the eu. this is what we conservatives have been working for and will continue to work for, and i welcome the return of these powers to the uk.
madam president, this particular motion was regarded as an opportunity for nation states to have subsidiarity and regain for themselves the power of making decisions on gm products. you have just heard from a member of the conservative party saying this is a good reason. this is not the case. fifty clauses in this motion made sure that the nation states would have to be subject to the eu in all of those 50 clauses before they could make such decisions. this is not a choice of parliament: it was a choice of the council and the commission, once again showing up this place for the fraud that it is and how much power it has. there was no debate on whether gmos are good. there is no clear labelling regime to ensure that the people of europe have the opportunity to choose the food that they want. there is no clear system to prevent cross-contamination. there is no clear opportunity for the people of europe to say ‘no’ to gm foods if they do not want them, or ‘yes’ if they do.
madam president, the british press and many meps have reported that this vote was to give powers back to our government regarding gm crops. in fact the report is misleadingly entitled ‘possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos’. however, as is always the case with this place, nothing is as it seems. we actually voted on 52 amendments, not the legislation. fifty of the amendments were lumped together. amendment 20, the only amendment giving any powers back, was drowned out by the dozens of other amendments, each reasserting eu supremacy over britain. i therefore abstained.
madam president, this was not a vote on whether or not great britain can or cannot grow gm crops: this is merely one amendment among 52 which allowed it. the rest did exactly the opposite. the eu still decides. the british parliament – and only the british parliament – should make decisions about gm crops. furthermore, ukip is opposed to the eu-seychelles agreement for fishing access to the mayotte waters, as we consider this to be neo-colonialist. the eu gives money to the seychelles ruling class and takes away the waters of ordinary fishermen. all i can say is this: this parliament professes one thing and does exactly the opposite. same as usual.
madam president, it is a funny thing: when we talk about climate change in this chamber, we are constantly told that the vital thing is to venerate the scientific consensus. and yet the people who make that argument most insistently and most loudly play by very different rules when it comes to this question of genetically modified food. suddenly it is not about where the scientific consensus is, but whether it feels right. well you know what, it is a democracy. people are visceral as well as cerebral creatures; consumers might well have an objection that is not completely logical, but that does not make it invalid. if it just gives you the willies, if you are superstitious, then fine. it would be just as wrong to impose gm foods on an unwilling customer as to ban someone who wanted to buy it from doing so. ideally we would have that decision made consumer by consumer, but at the very least let us make it through our national democratic mechanisms and procedures rather than imposing one set of rules on 600 million europeans.
madam president, on the face of it this seemed an easy one for ukip. here was the opportunity to allow some power back to member states, and we would have presumably voted in favour. but on a closer look at the thing, it was anything but. the commission was going to be involved at every single stage, even to a greater extent than it is now. therefore, we have reluctantly had to abstain from this. crucially, though, amendment 20 should have been voted on on its own, because that genuinely did give some power back to member states. however, that got subsumed in the rest of the thing and would have been effectively drowned out. it will be very interesting to see, in those member states which decide not to cultivate these crops, whether they will ban their consumers from eating them when all the constituents are imported. that will be a remarkable sight when people see they have not got enough to eat because of this legislation.
madam president, we voted to abstain from this. i do apologise. i read the wrong line. we are always in favour of the repatriation of powers. however, the problem is that the amendments are, as always, contradictory. but the final problem is that, in truth, the ttip agreement will render all of this talk redundant.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, ukip could not support this block vote.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. there was no possibility to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support this block vote.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments, which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support this block vote.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly billed as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, although amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and reasserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments. we regard that as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support this bloc vote
in writing. — conservatives are committed to a science-based approach to regulating gmos. the science on gmos is clear, yet this position allows member states to ban gmo production without clear scientific evidence.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support this block vote.
in writing. — meps and the uk press billed this vote as giving powers in relation to gm crops back to the uk government. however, that is very misleading. this was in fact a vote on numerous amendments, not on the legislation. only amendment 20 actually gave any powers back, and it should have been voted on separately. however, it was lumped together with 50 other amendments, all reasserting the eu’s right to rule over britain, and therefore i voted against.
in writing. - crucial in winning my support for this report was the fact that, compared to the original council position, it provides for enhanced environmental impact assessments of new gmos, stronger measures that allow for better management of the coexistence of gm and non-gm crops, and increased protection against the unwanted influence of biotech companies. i also believe it is vital that the report benefits smaller, traditional or organic farmers who tend to create more employment in the sector than the large industrial farms that are typically involved in gmo cultivation. finally, i welcome the fact that ultimately, it would be up to citizens to decide on whether or not their country will be involved in gmo cultivation, as the report allows for flexible and democratic opt-out.
in writing. — i fully support attempts to unblock the union process granting authorisation to gmos for cultivation and import, and can appreciate that dealing with cultivation at member state level may be the only way forward. however, the agreement reached by the co-legislators contains, in my view, a number of highly unsatisfactory elements which prevent me from supporting the overall agreement. the text adopted today will permit member states to proceed directly to national bans post-union authorisation, rather than first being required to seek a more legally sound ‘opt-out’ from authorisation, as initially proposed by the council. furthermore, this text will allow for national bans to apply to ‘groups of gmos’ – rather than being applied on a case-by-case basis – and fails to completely rule out the possibility of member states citing environmental and public health grounds for national bans. both of these elements conflict with the efsa risk assessment process whereby environmental and public health risks of gmos are examined on a case-by-case basis prior to union authorisation being granted. as a matter of principle, i cannot accept a proposal which allows for the scientific assessment of gmos to be undermined in this way. for this reason i abstained during the vote on the trilogue agreement.
in writing. — the scottish national party is opposed to the cultivation of gm crops in scotland: apart from the uncertainties about the long-term environmental effects, scottish farming relies on a reputation for quality and environmental sensitivity, and we must not jeopardise consumer confidence in any way. we cannot support this legislation as it is designed to promote the spread of gm crops in europe. it was proposed with the implicit understanding that member states which banned gm crops on their territory would drop their opposition to authorisation at the eu level. i voted against because this law would not provide enough safeguards to keep scotland gm-free. the anti-contamination measures would not apply to the border between england and scotland, which is a serious concern because england will cultivate gm crops. this deal would not prevent the circulation of gm products in scotland, and it does nothing on gm labelling. we should focus instead on reforming the eu’s environmental risk assessment and authorisation process to reflect the opposition of a majority of member states and of europe’s citizens to the imposition of gm technology.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, while amendment 20 did give powers back, it was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow meps to vote on individual amendments – something which ukip meps regard as undemocratic. it is also of clear relevance to uk voters understanding of the implications involved. therefore, my fellow ukip meps and i could not support this bloc vote.
in writing. — i supported the strong measures to allow member states to limit or ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory if they so wish. i believe this compromise allows national governments to take into account both scientific evidence and citizens’ concerns before making a decision on whether or not to introduce gmo cultivation.
in writing. — i supported this proposal. commission president jean-claude juncker, outlining commission policy to the meps on 15 july 2014, set out his intentions: ‘i also intend to review the current legislation authorising the use of genetically modified organisms. i consider it unacceptable that, under current rules, the commission is legally obliged to authorise the import and processing of new gmos, even in cases where a clear majority of member states are opposed to their use.’ in this climate it is right that member states be given the right to make decisions on gmo cultivation.
in writing. — unblocking the 15-year deadlock on gm cultivation is something i very much welcome. but giving member states the right to ban their cultivation on non-scientific grounds sets a dangerous precedent. we need to encourage science and innovation, not deter it. we need to base decisions on scientific evidence, not uninformed prejudice. there are enormous benefits that biotechnology can provide. i recently visited rothamsted research station. it is the longest-running agricultural research station in the world, providing cutting-edge science and innovation for nearly 170 years. i was especially interested to hear about their work on omega-3 oils. these oils have proved to be beneficial to human health. they are currently only available through marine fish. rothamsted has developed camelina plants that accumulate omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids in their seeds, thus providing a novel method of creating a terrestrial source of this essential oil, utilising existing farming practice and machinery. this is what gm cultivation is really about: gm technology has much to offer us and we should not deprive our citizens of its potential benefits.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the report as i believe that it leaves the door open for the introduction of a ban on gmo cultivation should such a policy be adopted by any future labour government. in addition, it also provides for strengthened environmental impact assessment of new gmos as well as more robust coexistence measures for better management of gm and non-gm crops.
in writing. — many scare stories are spread about on the issue of gm foods, but all too often these are not evidence-based. in matters like this, i am always guided by one key principle – follow the science. allowing bans on gm foods on ambiguous grounds does not make for good policy. policy must be based on sound science. if the eu turns its back on technological innovation in the agri-food industry, how are we to meet the great challenge of ensuring food security and sustainability? with the world population expected to exceed 9 billion in 2050, we will have to face up to producing more food from the same amount of land. if gm crops can produce higher yields and are resistant to disease without having a negative impact on human health, then i believe we should be more open to exploring their use, if that is the direction member states wish to take. while i welcome the proposal, insofar as it goes some way to breaking the gm logjam, it does not ultimately provide a balanced, reasonable outcome on this issue, and that is why i chose to abstain.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments, which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support this block vote.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, while amendment 20 did give powers back, it was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and reasserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments – and we regard this as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support the bloc vote.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments, which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support this block vote.
in writing. — along with the socialists and democrats group i voted to support the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/18/ec on the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in their territory. the principal objective of this modification to the legislative framework is to provide greater latitude and greater legal security to member states wishing to prohibit in all or part of their territory the cultivation of gmos authorised at european level.
in writing. — the scottish national party is opposed to the cultivation of gm crops in scotland: apart from uncertainties about the long-term environmental effects, scottish farming relies on a reputation for quality and environmental sensitivity, and we must not jeopardise consumer confidence in any way. we cannot support this legislation as it is designed to promote the spread of gm crops in europe. it was proposed with the implicit understanding that member states which banned gm crops on their territory would drop their opposition to authorisation at the eu level. this law does not provide enough safeguards to keep scotland gm-free. the anti-contamination measures would not apply to the border between england and scotland (and england will cultivate gm crops). this law would not prevent the circulation of gm products in scotland, and it does nothing on gm labelling. we need to focus instead on reforming the eu’s environmental risk-assessment and authorisation process to reflect the opposition of a majority of member states and of europe’s citizens to the imposition of this technology.
in writing. — the aim of these negotiations has been to unblock the union process for granting authorisation to gmos for cultivation and import. while i welcome the efforts that have been undertaken to achieve this goal, i believe that the overall agreement we have arrived at contains a number of unsatisfactory elements, which left me unable to support it at today’s vote. this final agreement is unsatisfactory in that it allows member states to proceed directly to national bans, rather than first seeking a more legally sound ‘opt-out’. in addition, it allows national bans to be applied to ‘groups of gmos’ – rather than on a case-by-case basis – and it fails to rule out completely the possibility of member states citing environmental and public health grounds for national bans. both of these elements conflict with the european food safety authority risk-assessment process whereby the environmental and public health risks of gmos are examined on a case-by-case basis prior to authorisation being granted. it is my strongly held belief that a science-based approach to the regulation of gmos must be maintained, and it was on this basis that i took the decision to abstain during the vote on the trialogue agreement.
in writing. — as the world population continues to grow, it is imperative that our ability to provide larger quantities of food, in as efficient and stable a manner as possible, improves. gmos provide a potential to do this and it is therefore important that, as politicians, we approach this subject in an objective way and with a science-based approach. all too often, however, we see knee-jerk reactions based on the politics of fear and half-truths, resulting in ill-conceived policies. the proposal put forward today is, unfortunately, in this mould and i am unable to vote in favour. it would see bans apply to so-called groups of gmos, for instance, rather than acting on a case-by-case basis – a clear example of legislation that fails to account for scientific method. in the broader sphere of this debate, i hope that we will see a pragmatic approach emerge in the coming years that sees those countries wishing to proceed with gmos do so, and those with reservations to be respected.
in writing. - i have no generalised objection to gmos. on the contrary, i can see great merit in the introduction of strains that, for example, reduce the need for pesticides or increase crop yield and quality, or reduce the requirement for watering. i am committed to a science-based approach. while the final agreement reached is satisfactory, in that it allows those eu countries that so wish to grow gmos, the downside is that it enables others to proceed directly to national bans rather than first seeking a more legally sound opt-out. it also allows these bans to be applied to ‘groups of gmos’, rather than case by case, and it widens the basis for a ban. apart from other considerations, these features could open up a range of potential problems and complications relating to neighbouring countries and to food exports and imports etc. i was therefore content to follow the uk government position in council and abstain.
in writing. — my labour colleagues and i supported strong measures to allow member states to ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory. this vote also means that member states which choose to cultivate gmos must introduce coexistence measures for border areas, so that states which do not wish to have gmos on their territory are protected from those who do.
in writing. — this was not a vote for or against gmos, but on giving member states the right to limit or ban gmos on their territory even if the european food safety authority has assessed them as safe or the commission has approved them. the proposal will allow member states to opt out of gmo cultivation at a national level, effectively giving member states the last word on gmo cultivation. the proposal includes strengthened environmental impact assessments for gmos, and coexistence measures for border areas, so that traditional crops cannot be contaminated by gm crops in a member state that has opted out. labour meps also supported amendments in the environment, public health and food safety committee that removed the council-backed idea of a phase of negotiations with agrichemical companies as part of negotiations over banning the cultivation of gmos. my labour colleagues and i voted in favour of this proposal because it provides a sound basis for member states to have a democratic and flexible national opt-out on gmo cultivation.
in writing. — this report was misleadingly labelled as giving member states more powers. in actual fact, whilst amendment 20 did give powers back, this was cancelled out by the other 50 amendments which maintained and re-asserted eu control and authority over the whole procedure. the eu did not allow us to vote on individual amendments, which we regard as rather unfair. therefore, we could not support this bloc vote.
in writing. — as a ukip member of the european parliament, my mandate from constituents is to oppose new eu legislation. consequently my natural instinct is to vote against, unless it seems to me that there is a pressing reason to do otherwise. as regards fishing stocks, this once again appears to take a collectivist approach across the european union. i believe therefore that it would be inconsistent for me to do anything other than vote against.
in writing. — the uk has 70% of the eu’s fishing grounds and yet only 13% of the fishing quotas. only ukip believes that the uk should be allowed to manage and police its own territorial waters for the benefit of the british people and our fishermen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mato report because i think it is vital that measures are adopted to protect living aquatic resources in the mediterranean, the black sea and connecting waters. it is deeply worrying that, over the past two centuries, there has been a decline in the population of sharks in the mediterranean sea of more than 97%, putting them at risk of extinction if current fishing levels continue. meanwhile, nine out of 13 regular species of whale and dolphin in the mediterranean and black seas are classified in categories ranging from vulnerable to critically endangered. mitigating incidental captures and improving the protection of these and other endangered animals, such as seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and coral species, will be crucial if we want to avoid causing irreversible damage to the ecosystem of our seas.
in writing. — i supported the agreement as it contains a number of welcome conservation measures for the mediterranean, particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches.
in writing. — i voted for this report. the proposal contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area. such measures go beyond the protection already ensured to these species at eu level by the habitats directive and other union acts, and include specific recording and reporting obligations for both operators and member states.
in writing. — although the uk is not directly affected by this proposal, the agreement contains a number of welcome conservation measures for the mediterranean – particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches.
in writing. — today i voted with the majority in favour of the proposal for a regulation on certain provisions for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area. the proposal contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area. i welcome this proposal which aims to transpose into community law gfcm recommendations
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, i find it odd that you talk about improving external border control when a number of parties in this house – including your own, and certainly the three political parties in my country: labour, the liberal democrats and the conservatives – all want turkey to join the european union. wonderful, is it not? surely you would agree with me that the best way to fight terrorism in the european union is to reinstate national border controls and do away with freedom of movement of peoples? (applause)
blue-card question. – i wonder if the gentleman agrees with me that the best thing for greece, and for many of the states in southern europe, would be to leave the euro, which has been an unmitigated disaster from the very beginning. it is a political currency – it is not a proper economic currency. no one in their right mind should have had it in the first place. you would be much better off out of it. do you agree with me?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, first i would like to give my customary welcome to incoming president of the european council. i can see why they chose you. you are perfect. you are like the euro record that has got stuck in a groove – a completely out-of-date view of what europe is. clearly you have learned absolutely nothing from the results of the european elections. as you know, in the united kingdom, immigration is the key debate. it is dominating political discourse within our country. at the heart of that is the whole question of the free movement of peoples, but your debate is the other side of the same coin. your debate is about immigration, and time and again, you have promised the polish voters that young poles would return to poland. at the same time, mr cameron has promised the british people that fewer poles would come to us. it turns out that you have both been wrong and that your country has been depopulated by two million people since you joined the european union. the reason is obvious. it is money, is it not? you yourself prove the point. you are the newest polish émigré, and you have gone from a salary of eur 60 000 to a salary of eur 300 000 a year. congratulations: you have hit the eu jackpot. but you have also scored a great victory without trying, because last week chancellor merkel went to downing street. she spent a few hours with mr cameron, and mr cameron is now a big supporter of the free movement of people. he said: ‘let me be clear, i support the freedom of movement’. so on that one you have won a great victory against mr cameron without having to lift a finger. but he also says that he will now restrict the benefits of eu migrants working in britain. in the past you have been very clearly opposed to this. please answer me today, mr tusk: is it right that children who live in warsaw should qualify for child benefits if their parents are working in london? please clarify that point for me today. in some ways you face quite a tough test, though not with the uk – our leaders are a soft touch. despite the lithuanian lemmings, you have got the euro crisis, a referendum on whether the uk stays a member and, of course, the appalling growth of attacks on jewish people. i would put it to you, mr tusk, that the european elections showed us one thing: the voters in europe want change. they want massive, wholesale reform, and i am entirely confident that you are not the man to provide that.
mr president, i was pleased to see the council acknowledge the harm from aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance, both in its statement in the december meeting but also reiterated again now by both presidents. however, the only concrete measure referred to, both in the statement and now in our discussion today, has been the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings in the eu. while that transparency is, of course, welcome, as my group has long argued, we need far stronger measures to tackle tax fiddling. in particular we need country-by-country reporting of profits by all multinationals, we need a common definition of tax havens, and we need to blacklist those firms engaged in tax fiddling and the advisers who help them to do this. some of these measures, as well as the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base, have been held up by particular member states within the council. those intransigent countries, of course, have included that of the president of the commission, luxembourg, but indeed also my own home country, the uk. so can i please implore presidents tusk and juncker to make sure that these long over-due measures are genuinely unblocked at that meeting in june? by doing so, you could unlock one trillion euros, which certainly puts the investment package into perspective. we are counting on you to do something about this issue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think there is a whole range of options for dealing with aggressive tax planning which have actually been put on the table in the past but – as i mentioned before – have been blocked. so if, for example, we could have common definitions around taxable assets and activities across the eu, that would solve many of the problems. if we could have more transparency around where profits are generated, and if we could have better enforcement of agreements reached and wider freedom of manoeuvre for the code of conduct group within the eu, that would go a long way towards dealing with some of these problems. we have an opportunity now, following luxleaks, and we need to make use of that opportunity.
mr president, the eu does need to change: there are serious problems in many member states. our national leaders need to listen more closely to the people, and we in this chamber need to listen more closely to our national leaders. there are still deep problems in many european economies. we need investment in energy, transport, digital, innovation, production, but politicians cannot keep spending taxpayers’ money, so we must encourage that private investment. but the private investment is facing global competition for that money. we need trade, and investors do need rights. our single market is meant to help businesses and consumers to trade easily across borders, to remove bureaucracy, to boost competitiveness. we must make it work, and we must make it work in a digital age, or we will lose it. it is time for europe to do less and do it better: reduce costs, bring down burdens and build the economy fit for the 21st century.
blue-card question. – ms rodrigues, i have two very quick questions. first of all, would you not agree that the best way to get more investment going in any economy is through confidence, and the confidence will not be there as long as debts continue to pile up through excessive spending? could you also explain – to the british people particularly – why it is an attractive prospect to us to pool our national resources across europe when we already do not have the things we require in our own country? you suggest that we pool our resources for them to be dissipated all across the eu. could you explain why that is attractive to us?
mr president, in this debate we have seen attacks on the extreme right – and rightly so. we must indeed oppose those extremes, just as we must oppose the extreme left. in the united kingdom we in ukip have proved that a moderate party which seeks controlled immigration – managed migration, not uncontrolled immigration – has been able to kill off the extreme right, the racism and xenophobia of the bnp. but here in this place, commitment to democracy is lacking. i note, for example, juncker’s comments about greece, telling greece to avoid the ‘wrong outcome’ in its general election. those are unacceptable. the only crime of syriza is to oppose austerity, and it is right to do so. it is entitled to do so. such interference in member states is not acceptable. democracy must come before politics, but in this debate i have seen lip service only paid to democracy.
mr president, just a brief one. regarding rule 162, i would seek an interesting clarification: my colleague just gave a fantastic speech – far better than i was going to do. but i had asked an hour before him to speak. was your criterion that you knew he would be better than me?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as rival governing factions from libya are meeting in geneva, under the mediation of bernardino león, the situation back home remains very precarious. following the overthrow of the gaddafi regime, ethnic, tribal and regional divisions have been woven now into a patchwork of rival governments and militias. the legitimately-elected government, having been forced from tripoli by islamists in the summer of last year, is now based in the north-eastern city of al bayda’. whilst it claims – that is, the legitimate government claims – to be in control of all but eight of libya’s largest cities and to remain responsible for approximately 80% of the country’s oil exports, military power is actually being exercised by an ex-gaddafi general, khalifa haftar, in the form of the ‘dignity’ movement. whether one looks to the humanitarian crisis presented by the movement of refugees across the mediterranean, the allegiance between isis and some of the jihadist militias – particularly ansar al sharia – or the potential for wider destabilisation of the sahel region, libya is a country that the eu cannot afford to ignore. furthermore, member states must do more to investigate reports of support for jihadist groups from third countries such as qatar and turkey.
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for her assessment of the situation in libya and of the potential within the current talks process. in the middle of the variety of very pressing issues in that particular state, i want to focus the attention of this house for a moment on two in particular. firstly, high representative, i want to thank you for your letter to me of 7 january 2015 regarding compensation from the libyan authorities for the innocent victims of irish republican terrorism in northern ireland. the gaddafi regime funded a campaign of terror and death in northern ireland with their partners in the ira. negotiations between uk representatives and the libyan authorities have stalled during the internal fragmentation and violence that libya is now experiencing. however, the innocent victims of libyan-sponsored terrorism in northern ireland need to see justice and compensation, and we need your support, high representative, to achieve that. i am asking you to make this a priority of your term of office and to talk and meet with these innocent victims in northern ireland. i hope that you can find the time to do this fairly soon. finally, the issue of the persecution of christians who live in libya. we of course have seen the results of violent extremism in france in the last week. those are dreadful and sad scenes. however, libyan christians have lived with these scenes for a very long time. they need your support; they need the support of this chamber and of the european union institutions.
blue-card question. – would you agree with me that one of the overriding factors of the problems that we see across the world at the moment, especially with the rise of terrorism and islamism of an extreme nature, has been brought about by well-meaning interventions by the west, and that madam mogherini has got one heck of a tough job to do this right when every example that we see of western intervention has just made things worse and worse? would you not agree that this is extremely dangerous territory?
mr president, the western-led bombing to oust gaddafi was supposed to be a success story for a new kind of warfare. politicians such as cameron and sarkozy wanted us to believe they had devised a surgical military intervention. more, the bombing was supposed to show that european leaders could exert influence in north africa to match america’s. what blood-soaked european vanity that has turned out to be! libya is not a failed state. it is no kind of state at all. it is a territory of murder and chaos, of kidnapping and butchery. the eu should do nothing but stay out. ms mogherini’s eurocrats can do no good by meddling in a civil war which europe helped cause – and with whom would they negotiate anyway? with which set of islamic extremists or tribal war lords or american favourites? our interference turned loose chaos in libya. we must not enter conflicts that are not in the national interests of member states. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr carver, if you had been prime minister of the united kingdom and you were in a position to decide, what would you have done when you heard mr gaddafi say he was going to butcher every man, woman and child in benghazi? had mr cameron not intervened, and had that massacre taken place, surely the world would have said we got it wrong? it is clear we have huge problems in libya and the outcome is far from desirable, but what would you have done, given the threat from a paranoid dictator like muammar gaddafi?
blue-card answer. – thank you mr tannock. what i would have done is that i would have learned from the previous experiences of our former prime minister, mr blair, and the tragic intervention in iraq. i would have hopefully used the diplomacy to get to the state of being a prime minister to understand that conflicts in the middle east need to have a middle eastern dimension if it is to be resolved properly. western influences in the middle east only leads to further distraction and further problems; it prolongs the issue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes i do. i think the whole issue with regard to intervention in libya on the back of what was happening in other parts of the middle east was a huge mistake, and yes, i believe we did exceed.
blue-card question. – mr cesa, do you not appreciate the issue with regard to the wider conflict here and the wider political elements of the many countries involved in the supply of arms to various groups with different interests across what was the state of libya? how can we have an arms embargo when so many member states have so many different issues? is this not a case – picking up on what your colleague ms gabriel was saying as the first speaker in this debate – that actually the european union, the arab league and the african union have a far greater position to play with regard to these negotiations than this place that caused so many problems?
blue-card question. – should we not now turn our attentions away from a diplomatic solution, leaving that to the united nations, arab league and other such international players, and actually turn our attentions to what this house always professes to be so good at, namely dealing with the humanitarian crises largely caused by european leaders? would you not agree with me that we should turn our emphasis to actually helping the hundred thousand refugees that you just spoke of?
blue-card question. – we have seen in afghanistan that military intervention without a clear military objective can often lead to unintended consequences. we have seen in iraq that the despotic regime of saddam hussein was replaced – if that is possible – by something worse. if we are seeking military intervention now: first of all, why? secondly, what lessons have been learned from afghanistan and iraq?
mr president, libya is in the midst of a bitter civil war. around 400 000 people are internally displaced, and humanitarian access to those affected remains a challenge. thousands of others are risking their lives fleeing instability in an attempt to reach european territories. libyan people want and deserve peace. they should not be held hostage by a small minority that seeks to win this conflict by military means. i welcome the geneva talks. the conflicting parties should put the national interest above all other considerations and work towards resolving their differences and building a national unity government for libya. outside powers must stop perpetuating the conflict and fuelling violence by equipping and funding armed groups. they must adhere to the september statement against interference and play a positive role by pushing their allies in libya towards reconciliation. the eu must support the achievement of these goals and remain fully committed, without taking any sides, to assisting the libyan people to resolve the crisis and ensure unity, governability and institution-building, so as to achieve peace and stability for all libyans.
blue-card question. – mr pittella, the un estimates that people trafficking makes gangsters and terrorists usd 15.5 billion a year and allegedly funds the terrorists who killed 2 000 people in nigeria and the innocents in paris. will you, therefore, do nothing and continue to rescue the boats in the mediterranean, thus continuing to fund those terrorists who are committing the crimes in paris and elsewhere in the world?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, recent tragedies in the mediterranean have shown us that the situation there, and the migratory pressures which the eu faces, are not at an end. migrants are not deterred by the risk to their lives. they are often fleeing desperation, extreme poverty and war, but too often they are aided by ruthless and exploitative human traffickers. year on year, more lives are lost within sight of the european coastline. now it is time for more straight talking and proper action, not just pointing out the problems. we need to look at strengthening the eu’s border surveillance, and the role of frontex. mediterranean countries need to step up their humanitarian responsibilities to treat those arriving with dignity. the commission needs to make sure that all member states are living up to their obligations, particularly with regard to detention conditions. we need more solidarity and more joined-up thinking. member states must process efficiently and quickly the applications of asylum seekers who arrive, even if it means more administrative work and resources. we especially need to ensure that unaccompanied minors are protected and safe, and that their best interests are at the forefront of our actions. we need the toughest penalties for human traffickers across the eu, and third countries must take action against them too. the eu also needs an efficient and effective returns policy through cooperation with third countries. of course we need to support member states with resettlement and community integration, but we also need to stop demonising citizens who do have genuine concerns about immigration and integration, otherwise this parliament merely plays into the hands of those with an anti-immigration agenda.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, people-smuggling across the mediterranean is a human tragedy. the word ‘criminal’ is inadequate to describe the abandoning of men, women and children in a leaky ship on the open sea. such criminals are not fit even to be described as human beings, and the severest penalties should be imposed on convicted people-smugglers. the commissioner said earlier that turkey was now an alternative route into europe, and mr kirkhope of the conservative party spoke about the need for strengthening borders. but i wonder if he is aware that the conservative party’s policy, recently stated by david cameron, is to further open up borders and to allow turkey to join the eu and allow another 72 million people the right to come to britain? there will be no need for the people-smugglers to put people into leaky ships, because all they will have to do is to give them forged turkish passports and they can come freely. such is the conservative party’s policy.
madam president, i find it interesting that you are re-writing the rules this evening. i have made it abundantly clear for nearly the last 90 minutes that i wanted to speak. i have tried to blue card, you have stopped that. i have indicated to your colleagues twice to ‘catch the eye’. i have also expressly indicated to you that i wished to do so, and yet you appear to be applying some form of discrimination to an efdd group member. maybe you would like to explain why you are personally preventing me from speaking this evening.
mr president, this directive has been stuck in the council since 2013. just why are we still waiting for constructive dialogue to make progress? just what are they scared of? one can only wonder. but we have actually come a long way on gender quality in the eu. we tend to move in fits and starts, but we are moving forward. in the uk a report last year highlighted real progress. women now account for just over 20% of non-executive board positions on the ftse 100 – and yes, shockingly, we still think that 20% is progress. the disparity on company boards is undeniable and there is no justification. the increase in the number of women on boards is much, much too slow. the absence of women in leadership positions creates a vicious circle. the lack of women as role models reinforces the belief that women simply cannot make it in the corporate world. this house is testament to the fact that it is not true. commissioner jurová, i was delighted to hear that this directive on women on boards was one of your main priorities. i urge you and the council to keep the discussions moving forward on this essential topic. that way we can make full use of everyone’s talent, regardless of their gender.
mr president, no less a person than mrs angela merkel said recently on german radio that we simply cannot afford to do without the skills of women. but this draft directive which has come from parliament is about more than skills and company performance. it is about equality, something which the eu as an institution has believed in since its very foundation in the treaty of rome in 1957. so it is absolutely shameful that the council has sat on this and has blocked this measure for such a long time, and i think we need to do all that we can to get movement. i think latvia is beginning to do that now, and we should welcome that. this is an eminently reasonable measure that we are putting forward. there are qualified women out there who are quite capable of doing a very good job on company boards. women in leadership is an eu matter. we need to do it and fight for all the women throughout the european union.
in writing. – i am deeply disappointed to find this item on our agenda anno 2015. more than one year ago, this parliament called loud and clear for legislation on transparent recruitment procedures, so that by 2020 at least 40% of non-executive directors of eu companies would be women. yet this seems to have fallen on deaf ears in the council. as a result, the average proportion of women on eu company boards is not even one in five. meanwhile, the uk government is quoting high national percentages of women on boards, but fails to mention that the number of women executives in the top 100 companies on the london stock exchange is at a meagre 6.9%. women in the uk still earn just 80 pence for every pound a man earns. house of commons data shows that, under the current uk government, the gap has closed at a snail’s pace of just 0.3% per year between 2010 and 2013. at this rate, it could take over 60 years to deliver equal pay. the status quo is unacceptable, and i hope that under the latvian presidency, the council will finally break with its tradition of inaction on this crucial issue.
madam president, one of the most profitable and despicable organised crimes is the trafficking of human beings: the buying, selling and abusing of vulnerable people with little more respect than that offered to a sack of potatoes. shockingly, in the eu, most trafficked people are europeans. but of course, it is impossible to be accurate about the true numbers who are trafficked. victims of trafficking are still being prosecuted for crimes that they have been forced to commit rather than being treated as victims, and this adds to their injustice. we have very welcome developments such as the anti-trafficking directive and a most effective and committed anti-trafficking coordinator, but there is still much to do to protect these vulnerable people. cross-border policing, joint investigative teams and the work of europol are all essential, but not enough. we must continue to raise the issue and to educate people to see the signs and report them, in order to make sure that together we can fight these crimes, which are, by their very nature, cross-border and complex.
madam president, the right of privilege and protection of personal information is under threat in a number of areas. the arrest on monday of 16 individuals, including 12 lawyers representing basque political prisoners, was contemptible. money was also seized during coordinated raids at several locations, including trade union offices. everyone is entitled to legal representation, and lawyers must be allowed to carry out their work without state interference and intimidation. unfortunately, in ireland we know all too well what can happen when the state tries to prevent human rights lawyers from carrying out their work. the killings of human rights lawyers pat finucane and rosemary nelson, carried out by loyalist gangs in collusion with british state agents, illustrates exactly what can happen when states attempt to frustrate justice.
mr president, i predict that the next six months will prove a rocky road for the latvian presidency. there will be many difficult issues to deal with, including mr juncker’s fantasy financial plan, greece’s possible exit from the euro, dealing with the instability in ukraine – encouraged by the european union, of course – and finally, a continent coming to terms with the islamic extremism that we witnessed last week. but in many ways latvia is a microcosm of all that has gone wrong in the eu. your economy tanked in 2008, followed by one of the worst recessions on the planet. you had to receive a bail-out even before you joined the ailing currency that is the euro – against the wishes of your people, of course. you are still the fourth poorest country in the eu. you have lost 20% of your population since 1992, so much so that the baltic is now depopulating faster than anywhere else in the world. your brightest, best and young are fleeing west in their droves. and where are they going? well, considering that one in every 30 latvians lives in the uk, that is pretty easy to answer. you have a brain drain, an ageing population, which means that there will be a skills, pensions and healthcare crisis not far down the road. in all, freedom of movement and the eu’s economic policies have been a disaster for latvia, and may i suggest that you get your own house in order first before you take on the problems of an old, tired and out-of-date european union.
blue-card question. – ms del castillo, you mentioned making access for new start-ups to 500 million consumers easier within the european union. the problem – as we see for example with the new vat moss regulations – is that quite often we are making things much harder for consumers; we now have the requirements for vat for online businesses to be paid to countries across europe. we are making things harder for businesses. i have businesses in my constituency coming to me saying that they are going to have to close thanks to new eu legislation. do you agree that is unacceptable?
blue-card question. – would you agree with me that the difficulty that we find when we try to impose legislation and rules on equality is that often we focus too much on equality of outcome, whereas what we should be looking for is equality of opportunity, because not everyone is equal in whatever task they undertake to perform? you have the right to have an equal opportunity, but some will do better than others. that is human nature, and that is where government legislation falls down. would you agree?
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister straujuma for outlining her plans to this parliament. on behalf of the british labour delegation i welcome much of what you will be prioritising for the coming months, prime minister, especially on issues such as energy security and the implementation of the investment plan. however, much like the commission work programme, it is not what is in the programme that is disappointing but what has been left out. the question i would like to ask is: why will no-one in the council or the commission put forward a real plan to reform the eu’s exploited social model? for instance, where is your commitment to take action on zero-hour contracts, to protect those who are under contract without any guarantee of paid work? where is the commitment for a full revision of the posting of workers directive to help those who have seen wages being undercut? unemployment is high across all parts of the eu, but even those people in employment are feeling squeezed and vulnerable. we must take action in this area, otherwise we will miss a vital opportunity. it is our responsibility to show by our actions that this eu works for everyone. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i find it, i must say, astonishing to hear a labour mep in this chamber talking about zero-hours contracts because, of course, tony blair, in 1995, pledged that if he came to power, the labour party would end zero-hours contracts. well, you had 13 years in power; you did not do it then. are you actually going to do it if you get back into power this time?
blue-card answer. – we have actually been talking about zero-hours contracts for a long time. i have not heard ukip talk about it. we have said quite clearly that we will stop the abuse of zero-hours contacts. that is something we are determined to do and it is something everybody in britain should be determined to do.
mr president, my congratulations to latvia for taking over the first presidency of the eu. prime minister, i welcome your programme and in particular the importance you have placed on the financial services sector and the need to get the framework right. however, as a rapporteur for the money market funds, i am disappointed not to see this more clearly in your programme. this is important legislation that has been on the table since september 2013, and the main concerns and possible solutions are well established. the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this house will vote on this in march this year. therefore i would like your commitment that your presidency will work with us to conclude on this issue. a quick second point: you place great emphasis on developing relations with central asia. i would ask you to expand this to the whole of asia, especially india and china, and i hope you will set the framework for re-establishing eu-india summits.
in writing. – i welcome the acknowledgement by the latvian prime minister of the need for greater transparency in the ttip negotiation, in recognition of the growing public interest in this proposed eu/us trade deal. in my view it is crucial that ttip does not limit the ability of the scottish parliament to organise public services in the way that best fits the needs of the people of scotland. this applies most of all to health services. ttip must not be allowed to impede the scottish government’s freedom to manage healthcare in scotland. in a broader sense ttip must not curtail the ability of the scottish parliament to bring public services back into the public domain if that is the democratic will of the scottish people, and to manage them in the way the scottish people see fit. if these criteria are not met then the treaty would clearly be undemocratic. this will be of particular importance within areas such as procurement which could be too easily overlooked, particularly the promotion of local economic activity and local supply of food to public institutions like schools. i would not support ttip if public services and local democracy were to be undermined.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this is a debate about europe’s foreign policy, but parliament will understand if i devote my speech to how that policy is affected by our response to the charlie hebdo terrorist attack. ms mogherini is right to look for concrete action, right to say how essential it is for our internal and external responses to be integrated, and especially right when she says we must de-link the words ‘islam’ and ‘terrorism’. for me it is not wrong to share in an emotional response to this attack. the magazine and its journalists, which meant to make us laugh, have suffered an attack which can only make us cry. but reason must prevail in our response: the reason that tells us the open societies we enjoy will always be vulnerable, but that terrorism succeeds if we allow that openness and freedom to be prejudiced. we can best support the human right of freedom of expression by refraining from passing anti-terrorism laws which themselves infringe human rights. so we must consider the problem of foreign fighters; but my own country is wrong to consider actions which themselves might breach the conventions on statelessness. i am dismayed that a representative of a party which includes the proud name of my own country stained the memorial in this chamber by seeking to use it to blame immigration. they should remember that the charlie hebdo attackers were all french citizens, just as the london bombers were all british. and those who resist europe’s role for our mutual security should see, too, that a suspect who is on a british watch list but not on a french one exposes a justifiable need for better intelligence sharing in europe. foreign policy did not cause these or other terrorist attacks. there is no legitimate cause for the fighters, but there are causes as to why they fight. conflict in syria, yemen, libya and iraq has allowed the threat to grow, and it will be reduced only if we work to end those conflicts. europe must intensify its work with partners in the wider region to stop support for conflict and recognise that western support for authoritarianism in some of those countries, now and in the past, has fuelled grievance. this is our neighbourhood, and disengagement, either through fear or through erecting barricades, is not an option. this week especially, we should support our french colleagues who championed their country’s concept of vivre ensemble – living together within our continent and living together beyond it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i share the remorse for the tragic events in paris and for all victims of terrorism. yet after every crisis, we hear the same mantra from the european union: that the simple answer is more europe. i am afraid that is not the answer, and i do not think the french people were applauding europe on the march there – they were applauding national leaders on the march. i do not think king abdullah, mr netanyahu or indeed mahmoud abbas would regard themselves as european leaders. today you are speaking about the main aspects and basic choices for cfsp and csdp. it seems to me that the choice is very simple: you can continue on the path of ever more expansion of structures and tasks just to promote the visibility of the european union as a global actor in its own right, or you can focus on a very limited set of tasks where the eu might do something useful and add value instead of merely competing with other organisations or seeking to displace the position of our member states. speaking here yesterday, european council president donald tusk said that the european union was, and i quote, ʽa political organisation – a tool, not a destinationʼ. however, most worryingly, some still cling to the idea of a state called europe as the eu destination, and i would suggest that the way in which the european external action service has developed is precisely part of that drive in the wrong direction towards an integrated european state. instead, the demand that we hear from many of our citizens and from the british prime minister is for a new direction, for an end to ever-closer union. my concerns about the european external action service are repeated in regard to csdp, another supreme example of the eu quest for image and visibility in the most vital and sensitive area of national responsibility. i very much hope that mrs mogherini will change direction and focus on a few areas of real added value.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the eu’s blinkered desire for harmonisation and ever-closer union ignores the diverse international interests and sometimes very different priorities that each of the 28 member states have. what about the serious question of further economic and diplomatic burdens that have been placed on some member states, not least because of the eu expansion eastwards? one response by russia has been the conclusion of a food-for-long-range bombers deal with argentina, thus forcing the british government to review her defence requirements in the south atlantic. this is just one obvious example, merely from a british perspective, of international interests which conflict with increasingly overt expansion of eu neo-imperialism. this will only be exacerbated by a common foreign and security policy and a common security and defence policy. what does this short-sighted approach to the eu expansion and the desire to foster the notion, as we have just heard, of a perceived superpower mean for the traditional neutrality of ireland and austria, particularly given the self-amending nature of the lisbon treaty? i grew up in the 1980s, and the undiplomatic approach to this most sensitive of subjects reminds me of a song by a british band from coventry in the region that i represent. that band was called the fun boy three – formerly known as the specials – but there is nothing fun or special about this place whatsoever. and the name of that song? the lunatics have taken over the asylum. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer. – quite frankly, the beauty of europe, to my mind, is its diversity: it is the fact that we have 28 individual member states. the concept of trying to make us all the same – this harmonisation, this pasteurisation – to make us into this new (as we have heard) superpower called europe is a bad thing. it is my contention – i use the example of ireland and of austria – that it is up to member states’ sovereign parliaments to have the ability to decide what defence policy best suits them.
madam president, with respect, my political group had a blue card up at the back. could i ask my colleagues on the top table to actually keep your eyes open? because i know a colleague of mine missed the chance for a blue card, and blue cards have been raised.
blue-card question. – mr iglesias, i was wondering whether you would agree with me that the continual use of the term ‘superpower’ with relation to the eu is demonstrative of a drift towards something which i did not believe even in my wildest nightmares: that this place was actually aiming to become a superpower? would you agree that this is the incorrect terminology to use and, yes, that it is an assembly of important countries but a superpower it most certainly is not and surely must never be?
madam president, across the globe we see risks to our peace and security, and the tragedy in paris is the most recent example. whether it is an assertive russia, a destabilised middle east and north africa, the rise of global jihadism, changes in the balance of power in the far east and across the world: these are global trends, and all democratic states in our union have a shared stake in solving them. coordinating our foreign and security policy in these spheres of shared interest, in my view, is the best way to assert our collective will, share intelligence and also enable cost savings to our national budgets. through the cfsp and csdp we have witnessed the effective work, for instance operation atlanta, the anti-piracy mission off the coast of somalia. the cfsp has been useful in imposing strong economic sanctions against, first, iran, and now we are also seeing the benefits and the effects on the russian economy, and ultimately president putin’s ability to project his power and try and annex the crimea. the cfsp must never be about taking away the sovereign prerogative of member states, but rather acts as a means of strengthening combined positions where there is logic for doing so based on our shared mutual interest. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer. – well, ana, you well know that i am president of the friends of kurdistan and you are one of my vice-presidents. i really would like to pay a tribute to your expertise and knowledge of that particular country and region. of course we need to do more, and i am proud that member states – including the united kingdom, in fairness – have helped in arming the peshmerga and fighting the islamic state and the threat it poses to the christian minorities, the yazidis, the turkmen, the shia, arabs and so on. what is going on in iraq is a tragedy, and we must all coordinate our efforts internationally to defeat the scourge of jihadi terrorism.
blue-card question. – i know, mr schaffhauser, that there is a long tradition in france, on the far right and the far left, of anti-americanism, but you make these most categorical statements about the role of the usa – that somehow it has defined our national and european common foreign and security policy, particularly vis-à-vis ukraine. have you ever been to ukraine? what do you know about ukraine? i have been going to that country for more than a decade, and i have never seen any evidence that the ukrainian people or ukraine’s political class are being instructed by the united states as to what the country’s geopolitical determination should be for the future. you have no evidence whatsoever that the usa imposes its foreign policy on any of us. you make that statement: prove it please, sir!
mr president, i send condolences to the families of the victims and to the french people, and in this foreign policy debate i focus on un secretary-general ban ki-moon’s announcement that palestine will be joining the international criminal court (icc) on 1 april. this political, peaceful and legitimate course of action by the palestinian authority is to be welcomed. it grants jurisdiction to the icc over any war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in the occupied palestinian territory and applies to all parties in the conflict there. granting access to justice for thousands of victims is a positive way forward. amnesty international said that israel, the us and the eu member states must refrain from punishing or threatening palestine for taking this positive step. member states need to be clear that palestine joining the icc is a legitimate positive step and that it is in no way an attempt to aggravate an already tense situation, and therefore no one should try to stir up the flame of confrontation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – ms anderson, i of course welcome all states eventually signing the rome statute and becoming part of the international criminal court, although i have my doubts whether the palestinian state is ready, because it is not yet recognised as a state internationally. but would you accept that hamas in part of the palestinian territories, namely gaza, has committed war crimes itself by launching rockets against innocent civilians in israel?
blue-card answer. – i think the test of terrorism is the deliberate targeting of civilians. so let us all remember the four little children who were playing on the beach in gaza and the other 520 little boys and little girls that were murdered during the last attack in gaza. so i think ultimately labels are not what matter and should not be the issue: it should be the solutions. solutions are what matter. i think we need to be clear on what they are, and that is a two-state solution on the 1967 borders.
mr president, allow me to begin by thanking the high representative for her work and the efforts that she is making and for the report that she has given here to this house. europe faces many security challenges - a frozen conflict in our eastern neighbourhood, crises in the middle east and north africa, and the global threat of terrorism as recently seen in france, pakistan and syria. an effective european security and defence policy is therefore crucial for our citizens’ welfare. the tragic terrorist attack in paris has affected us all. our response should not lead to losing our core values. this will hand victory to extremists. instead, we need to push for a coordinated and comprehensive global response in dealing with terrorism. we need to deal with some of the long-standing disputes in the world, such as palestine and kashmir, with better security cooperation internally and externally, education – as extremists thrive on ignorance – and the need to show responsible leadership to counter the narrative of extremism.
mr president, a strong focus on our neighbourhood and the middle east is undoubtedly important, but objectives can be compromised by being absent in other regions. i am concerned that, regarding asia – home to half the world’s population – it is left to the us and russia to set the agenda. we saw an illustration of this just this week in india. high-ranking global players from across the world were there at the gujarat summit. meanwhile the eu was not. president obama is visiting india once again, for the second time. so would you agree, high representative, that it is an urgent issue that we resurrect the eu-india summit? otherwise we will disappear from delhi’s radar. our absence in india, china and asian states is short-changing our businesses and citizens. failing to increase engagement with these countries would equal failing to deliver growth, high social standards, stability and progress on tackling climate change. i hope that in 2015 we will finally connect the dots and adopt a proactive asia strategy in which these countries are approached as real and equal partners.
mr president, rule 162 on the catch-the-eye procedure: for the second time today we have had speakers from groups; no efdd speaker has been allowed. i asked an hour and a half ago for a ‘catch the eye’. i would just like some justification as to why we are not being allowed to speak.
in writing. – we all agree there can be no peace without justice and diplomacy, and this also applies to the israeli-palestinian conflict, where decades of armed struggle and on-off peace talks have simply failed. signing the rome statute opens up palestinian territory to future international criminal court (icc) investigations. this is a situation that israel and its allies, including the uk, fought a long and intense behind-the-scenes battle to avoid – forgetting that the decision not only sets the stage for filing a war crimes case against israel for its actions in gaza but also exposes palestinians to prosecution. the palestinians will themselves be judged by this court. surely, if the eu is committed to actively promoting the widest participation in the icc, we should be backing the right of the palestinian people to seek justice through accession to treaties and international organisations, and not discouraging them from doing so. if we, the union of european nations, continue to fail to act and to support palestinians’ campaign to join international organisations, then the arab-israeli conflict will remain a thorn in the side of the middle east, causing suffering and destruction that will continue throughout the remainder of this parliamentary term and many more to come.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, whilst much media attention has been given to the brutal massacre by extremists in paris and islamic states in the middle east, another brutal, anti-western and extreme organisation, boko haram, which means ‘western education is forbidden’, has grown in power in northern nigeria. reliable information can be difficult to obtain out of nigeria at the moment, but the latest suggestions are that up to 2 000 people have been killed in the latest campaign of terror, during which over 1.5 million people have had to flee the fighting. then, of course, there is the fact that these same extremist islamists kidnapped 276 schoolgirls in april last year, and most are still missing. it has been reported that a number have been sold on as slaves and have been forced to convert to islam. in october, it was reported that two girls escaped captivity and made it back to their families. they said they had been held in a camp in cameroon and raped every day. it is barbaric! resolving this crisis will be difficult, and there are no easy answers or quick-fix solutions. what i think we can be sure of is that the european union or the west is unlikely to be any more successful in nigeria than we have been elsewhere in the middle east and north africa. what member state governments must encourage is greater regional cooperation and a truly global response, and this can be achieved not only through the united nations, but also through the commonwealth. i would suggest that this free association of friendly nations with a shared language, history and culture is far better suited to exerting positive influence in this part of the world than the european union, which has far too many of its own problems to deal with first.
madam president, we are talking here about africa’s largest economy; it is a country that is major provider of peace-keeping forces within africa. as people have been saying, we know it is grossly unequal; we know about the corruption; we know that a lot of the money does not reach the grass roots; we know that there is still a high level of poverty, inequality, children who do not get educated. i think that makes the attacks on the schools – the misogynistic attacks on girls – even more distressing. there has also been a lot of criticism in nigeria about the current president’s response: he has sent condolences to paris but he has said nothing on baga. we know that it is difficult to get information; we know that boko haram have taken out communications systems, but nevertheless we would also hope that the government of nigeria also steps up and really takes this seriously and openly. there are many people who will not be able to vote in the elections on 14 february – i was an observer last time – because they are displaced, they are refugees. we really need international support and action to change this. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – do you share my concerns over the lack of compliance with convention as regards the nigerian constitution, which previously saw the presidency rotating between the north and the south, and of course this has gone out of the window with the election of president jonathan? would you like to see, and would you support me in seeking, a return to that revolving presidency again?
blue-card answer. – i think the issue about the revolving presidency is one for the nigerians themselves to sort out. you will be aware that goodluck jonathan himself will say that he was only elected once into that role and has the right to stand. what i would like to see is a much more democratic process in terms of the election – i am pleased we have an observation mission there – so that people can actually cast their votes and be sure that their votes mean what they put in the ballot box. but whoever is the president afterwards – whether it is mr buhari, whether it is goodluck jonathan again, whoever else – we hope that they really do get to grips with this problem rather than trying to pretend that it does not exist.
blue-card answer. – you are speaking very passionately about dealing with this evil organisation, and i share your feelings on it. the one thing that concerns me is that we have heard a lot about these discussions, and i wonder whether you would agree with me that, if we are talking about projecting the eu into this scenario, there is a danger that there will be some comeback. surely stronger border controls with sensible, fair rules would stop there being more comeback on our streets?
blue-card question. – you talk about ‘we’. would it not be better to have a regional solution to this tragedy that is happening in west africa? would it not be better to leave this to the commonwealth and to the african union, rather than let our opponents use this opportunity to talk about further western intervention?
in writing. – it is a sad reality that we live in a world marked by escalating levels of violence by religious extremists. with the recent massacre of over 150 people by boko haram in the town of baga last week, there is no worse example of this scourge on the global landscape than nigeria. and this is not new – my colleague bastian belder and i have already raised awareness of these atrocities. however, if the dastardly attacks in paris tell us anything, it is that we in europe should not ignore this intolerance, or simply hope that, in times ahead, it remains in some foreign land. the eu has a duty to act. it has a duty to act to stop the radicalisation of children as young as 10 for use as suicide bombers. it has a duty to act to protect those most vulnerable to persecution: women, young people and religious minorities, including christians. most importantly, it has a duty to act to protect the belief that fundamental freedoms of religion, expression and speech are stronger than any terrorist bomb or bullet.
blue-card question. – ms harms, would you agree with me, following ms spinelli’s ridiculous comments, that the true fascists are the russian aggressors? the jewish community of the crimea has been completely eliminated and the synagogue that has been there for 50 years has been closed down, with swastikas daubed on it by the so-called liberators from moscow, and the tatar community have also been put into exile. fascism is coming from moscow, not from kiev, i am afraid to say. would you agree with my statement?
madam president, i should like to thank the vice-president/high representative for her focus on the humanitarian situation in ukraine. as winter sets in, humanitarian access to eastern ukraine is indeed urgent to prevent starvation and medical emergency. the evidence of it being blocked is, of course, itself a violation of international law. i ask ms mogherini in her reply to comment on echo’s role in this respect. second, our resolution puts a proper focus on reforming ukraine itself and endorses the reform priorities under the association agreement outlined in the letter from ms mogherini to mr brok. ukraine now has responsibilities under that agreement, and it is proper for us to exercise pressure in this respect. finally: on russia, my group endorses the aim of a more proactive approach. as our amendment shows, de-escalation of the sanctions can follow de-escalation of the crisis because, as i had the chance to say to the vice-president/high representative earlier, any change in eu restrictive measures must reflect a real change in observance of or prospects for peace, not a weakening of europe’s resolve to achieve it. i trust that the message will be understood by the foreign ministers on monday.
madam president, i have great regard for the ukrainian people. i collect ukrainian art, i visited kiev in the crimea and i am certainly no excuser of putin’s russia. nevertheless, i am deeply concerned at the mess the eu has made of its intervention in ukraine to date. whilst i support a ukrainian trade deal, the eu association agreement is nakedly political. it talks of convergence in foreign and security policy and of military cooperation. an eeas official has even said there is a clash of geopolitical rivalries of two competing empires. the eu must exhibit its strength, and now ukraine wants to join nato. all this just pokes the russian bear. this year, acclaimed us film director oliver stone is releasing a documentary alleging that the cia was involved in the maidan demonstrations. he says that so-called shooters, who killed protestors, were third-party agitators with cia fingerprints. and this ‘regime change 101’, as he calls it: is it fiction or fact? i would like to know whether the eu is aware of these claims and if the eu is at all complicit.
madam president, i am very pleased to hear the high representative’s report on the high level of activity observed amongst ngos during this difficult time. in preparation for this debate, i have been in communication with cultural actors from ukraine, russia and eu member states, who agree that more consideration must be given to the power of civil society to pursue peace-building initiatives through the arts, with the eu as a key player: able to share, support and develop best practice, particularly in respect of young people who are, after all, the future.
in writing. – it is a big mistake for those opposed to the european union to make common cause with president putin just because he opposes ukraine’s ambitions for closer association with the eu. president putin is not our friend or ally: he is the leader of a gangster state. in russia, state-sponsored terrorism, corruption, intimidation and murder are commonplace. the ukrainians threw out their corrupt pro-russian president and government because they were under the domination of russia. the ukrainians are not absolved of all blame for things that have happened there in the wake of the revolution, but all revolutions bring chaos, injustice and suffering. however, the ukrainians want to be free of russian domination. the ukrainians are between a rock and a hard place. they see no alternative to the russian threat but to seek closer association with the eu. i regret that but i understand their position. i hope that the ukrainians eventually achieve independence and freedom without the need to submit themselves to the undemocratic eu. i wish them well in that ambition.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i want to echo those words of thanks to the latvian presidency for the excellent launch on friday, and also to mrs mogherini for taking time out of her agenda and for showing leadership. i know she is coordinating across many departments now to lead on this issue in the next few months, and that is crucial for parliament. we now have to build on our words tonight and the warm words in riga to make the year a year of action. we will have the first chance in new york in september, when we will get together to replace the mdgs by the sustainable development goals (sdgs). my lesson from the last 15 years of mdgs is that development policy works. millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, millions of people now have access to water and sanitation and millions of children are now going to school. so we need to see that same kind of commitment now to the sdgs, so that after the end of this year we have laid the foundations for a real legacy of the european year for development. linked to the debate on the sdgs is, of course, the climate change agenda, and we will have the climate talks in paris in december. it is the poorest in the world who are already paying the price of climate change, and we have to link climate change and development, which is why it is very important that we have the kind of coordination that i know you, mrs mogherini, are leading in the commission. i hope we will also see support in 2015 from the commission and the council on an updated gender action plan for the european union. in too many countries, progress and our rights as women are being undermined and women are being subjected to violent attacks in conflict situations: by boko haram, in the drc and in syria. we want action on that. finally, we want to work with ngos, which are vital to our work in this european year of development. it was great that the latvians got behind this idea. they pushed the idea and now we have to work with them to deliver it here in europe.
mr president, i am going to decline the invitation of our colleague from the freedom party to say i am not proud of the year of development, because i am incredibly proud of the year of development. development works, and we now have a real opportunity to put international development right at the heart of european policymaking, and i want to pay tribute to the latvian presidency for doing this. specifically, we have an opportunity now to ensure that member states deliver on their commitments for 0.7% of gni spending on development. this is a fundamental aspect of human principle; saying that we have a commitment to those who live in the poorest parts of the world is a fundamental aspect of who we are and the values that we should share. of course, having development at the heart of policymaking should remove the all-too-familiar problems we have with policy undermining development objectives: financial decisions taken at home that undermine tax receipts in developing countries and foreign policy decisions that fail to promote fundamental aspects of human dignity, such as rights for lgbti people. having the year of development will put humanity – humans, people – at the heart of our policymaking, and i welcome the decisions made to do that this year.
mr president, i am a strong supporter of humanitarian aid in the case of natural disasters, and the challenge for all nations must be to deliver that quickly. i think we all agree here that the aim must be to help countries develop. much more, in my view, could be done through trade, by breaking down tariff barriers to make it easier for developing countries. for example, a higher tariff on chocolate than cocoa hardly encourages processing to be done in the countries themselves and the development of their economies. we must also be careful that policies intended to help do not end up hurting people in those countries. i refer, for example, to fishing agreements under which eu vessels are able to exploit the natural resources of other countries, and to the pesticides directive, which does not help in terms of the mosquito population or, therefore, the fight against malaria. there are many issues, and i think they are wider than just development. we must not help with one hand whilst hurting with the other.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, since the overthrow of president mubarak, egypt has undergone many changes and been gripped by much political turbulence. following the removal of president morsi in response to genuine public revolt against his rule and the direction in which he was taking his country, we are now beginning to see stability once again return to that great country. since then, we have seen the adoption of a new constitution by referendum, the election of president al-sisi and, most recently, the announcement of parliamentary elections. these achievements are all to be welcomed. however, this is just the start of the journey rather than the end. many internal issues need to be addressed if egypt is to become the pluralistic arab democracy that its people wish for and deserve. whilst my group welcomes the improvements to the lives of coptic christians, in particular, and other minorities, it is crucial that this level of tolerance be exercised in other areas too. freedom of speech, freedom of expression, the right to peaceful protest and the rule of law are all key tenets of democracy which should also be respected. the large number of citizens who have been charged to date, and who have been detained and sentenced in egypt for non-violently exercising these rights is a grave cause for concern. reports that, since july 2013, more than 40 000 people have been detained and an estimated 1 400 protestors killed are extremely worrying. i am also concerned by the crackdown on media freedom and the fact that one of my own london constituents, sue turton from al-jazeera television, a journalist, has been tried in absentia and is now prevented from resuming her job anywhere in the region. in broader terms, we must not forget egypt’s role as a leader of the arab world, and a regional power and actor, and its ability to play a part in finding solutions to the current situation in neighbouring libya, for example, or in the fight against islamist terrorism in the wider middle east and north africa. as a friend, there is much to be gained from positive relations with this great country of egypt, and i welcome the interest of this house in seeking to support egypt in its transition to democracy. this is a great challenge for the country.
mr president, i recognise that egypt is an important partner to the european union, but tonight we are debating a resolution that is deliberately critical of egypt. we want our criticisms to be heard. the mass detention campaign in that country continues to lock up tens of thousands of people. in 2014, ten thousand people were arrested on charges of rioting, sabotage and terrorism. this is not a credible approach to justice and the rule of law. equally, the egyptian representative told me that it is the wrong time for us to protest on the use of the death penalty. but egyptian courts have this year meted out preliminary death sentences to over a thousand supporters of the ousted president, mohamed morsi. the point is not that we oppose or agree with the previous president, but that we absolutely disagree – and always will do – with death sentences. all unwarranted detentions are wrong, but egypt should understand that the damage to its international reputation comes with the continued detention of the three al-jazeera journalists. no one outside the country believes them to be anything other than bonafide journalists. after the highest court of law overturned their conviction on procedural grounds, they should, frankly, be released and not retried. my group also condemns the attack on lgbt rights, represented by the raid on the bathhouse leading to the arrest of 26 allegedly gay people. i am relieved that these charges have now been dropped, but i emphasise that sexual rights must be respected, just like any human rights. finally, it is proper for us to question the status and content of the ngo bill and to insist that international foundations and donors can have a proper role in facilitating the free flow of ideas without improper interference in the political choice of the egyptian people. partnership should mean partnership.
mr president, egypt is still reeling from the effect of the arab spring. it relies heavily on the tourist industry, and i can testify to that having been there myself. any perception of instability or danger drives away tourists and increases poverty and despair. sadly that industry now lies in ruin. about a year ago the country’s military dictatorship issued death sentences against 188 defendants, including journalists, political opponents and innocent protestors. the trials were deeply flawed. freedom house, a much respected international organisation, recently issued a very disappointing report ranking egypt as one of the worst countries in terms of free society. it noted with concern the lack of political and civil rights, and another charitable organisation, open doors, has stated that egypt lacks any religious liberty. we now learn with shock and horror that the dictator hosni mubarak has been cleared of all charges of conspiracy in the killings of hundreds of protestors and the embezzlement of huge sums of money desperately needed by egypt’s citizens. egypt’s record with its neighbours and especially ethiopia is appalling. it denies them the fundamental right of access to the waters from the nile, although in fact 85% of the water has ethiopia as its source.
mr president, i think we are all agreed that egypt is a vital strategic partner within the region. i think we are also agreed, as we say in this resolution, that egypt has a considerable way to go in meeting our norms, and we have a duty to the egyptian people to be frank about the shortcomings in their governance. we have a duty to the egyptian people, who took such enthusiastic part in the arab spring and the revolution, not to dash their hopes and let them down. ms mogherini, i am very impressed by your comments, as ever, this evening. you have a common agenda with us and i hope that we are in a position to strengthen you in your dealings with the egyptian authorities. i would echo the previous comments made about political prisoners, journalists, lgbt people, and particularly the ngo rule as ngos in egypt are now in a very dangerous position. i would also specifically raise with you paragraph 17, in which we call on egypt to cooperate with all un human rights external organisations and mechanisms, and paragraph 6, where we go one better and call on egypt to ratify the rome statute and start the process towards accession to the international criminal court. have you raised that point with them? what would be your attitude towards it? it strikes me as a worthwhile effort to encourage them in that direction.
mr president, after the military takeover, violations of human rights have reached alarming proportions in egypt. the current government led by president sisi has undermined the democratic journey of egyptians and is making the issue of radicalism worse by the day. more oppressive sisi-led government policies will result in more support for isis. a quarter of the middle east lives in egypt, so what happens there will affect the rest of the region. unlawful killing, imprisonment, torture – targeting journalism in particular, as witness the case of the treatment of al jazeera’s three reporters, who need to be released immediately – and the stifling of civil society are now regular in egypt. those responsible for human rights abuses must be held accountable for their actions. the eu cannot turn a blind eye to what is happening. it must use all its available tools to stop this. we must stand in solidarity with the detainees and harassed civil society in egypt. only by building a truly pluralistic society that is respectful of the diversity of views can we ensure long-term stability and security in egypt.
mr president, as we have already heard this evening, egypt’s high court yesterday overturned the only remaining conviction against the former president mubarak. given that earlier charges for killing protestors have been scrapped as well, four years of hard sacrifices made by the egyptian people seem to have been in vain, all the more so given that, under president sisi, hundreds are sentenced to death in mass trials, activists are punished for peaceful protests and ngos are facing stiff repression. in august 2013, around 1000 peaceful protestors were killed in events that were on a par with what happened in tiananmen, but unlike tiananmen the world does not know the names of those squares. this crackdown is only pushing greater numbers into the arms of the terrorist organisation so, if we fail to act, this will ultimately hurt egyptians as well as eu citizens. i would like to ask the high representative what her strategy is on this. given also that western technology and equipment are enabling the authorities to repress citizens, a useful first step would be to consider whether there ought to be a ban on exports of such items to egypt and similar countries.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i thank everybody very much for the debate and also for your signs of appreciation of my being here in this plenary. i have to say at the ninth hour that i really think you need to review the working procedures of this plenary – not for me but for you. for me it is not just a duty; i do not know what you are used to but for me it is normal to be in the room when there is a debate concerning my issues. it is also often very interesting and a pleasure to listen to the debate because i think this feeds into my work most usefully. let me also say that i will be here tomorrow morning too so we will meet each other again, those of you who are here, and that means that when i said during my hearing that i will work with parliament, i meant it, and i find it also normal. so no need to compliment me on that. that is just my duty and that is just normal. but, i really encourage the presidency to work on a more rational way of holding parliamentary work, for the sake of the parliamentary work itself. having said that, i believe that the discussion on egypt tonight – obviously this is the only one i have attended out of the three you have had over the last year – has been a good sign of the balance between two different things. on the one hand, there is the regional role that egypt can play – and has played – when you talk about the middle east crisis, and can play even more on many different issues that are also core issues for our regional and foreign policy. on the other hand, there is egypt’s internal transition, which is something that we need to support and encourage – and encourage to move in a certain direction, the direction that you mentioned of full respect for their own commitment and their own constitution. and it is a transition. i would not agree with those of you who said that the arab spring has turned into an islamic winter. first of all, the islamic winter would not exactly be the case in egypt. we might discuss whether that were an islamic autumn or a non-islamic winter but when we apply these categories to arab countries we are being a little bit ungenerous. it took many decades, if not centuries, for europeans to go through transitions, and our transitions were also painful, non-linear, contradictory, sometimes difficult, and history is like that. so it is difficult to imagine now what the outcome will be but i would not declare closed after just a few years a season that was encouraging and full of hope in the arab world. and among the arab spring experiences we have certainly some – and i would say many – success stories, whether the institutional transitions that were positive ones, as in the case of tunisia and others, or the rising up of civil society movements that are really of value for the countries and societies concerned. so i think we need to develop a more complex reading of the situation there. i shall not respond to all the questions that you have raised – partly because that would probably take another nine hours and that would definitely be too much – but i want to mention two things. the first concerns a specific case raised by a member who has now left the room, but i still want to mention it because i discussed this case just the day before yesterday in dublin with the irish foreign minister, and that is the case of ibrahim halawa, an irish citizen who is in detention in egypt. we are following the case and i wanted to inform you that i am following it closely, not only with the services and the delegation there, but also with the irish authorities, and we discussed it just the day before yesterday. secondly, to those of you who asked me if i have raised one or another issue with the egyptian authorities, i want to inform you that i still have not had an official meeting with the egyptian authorities in my first two months in post. i have had the opportunity to meet with the egyptian president and the foreign minister in a different capacity on several occasions, but not yet in my current position. obviously there are a number of things that we are passing as messages, through our services, but i also want to give you the news that, yes, i will be planning and looking for an early date for official meetings with the egyptian authorities because, following the suggestions made by a large majority of you, we need to find this balance of encouragement and engagement with egypt at a direct level and i will be more than ready to do so in the near future.
in writing. – egypt is a country rightly proud of its historical and cultural traditions. it is dependent upon tourism for the growth of its economy. but recent events, and the erosion of civil liberties and human rights, have led to a decline in the tourist industry. who is harmed by this? it is not the government, or those in power in egypt, but the people of that country who lose much of their source of income. death sentences issued to 188 defendants appear to have been handed down in many cases for non-lethal offences and without what we might consider a fair trial. i hope that egyptian authorities will reconsider the direction in which their administration is travelling.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the trouble is that the resolution that is on the table is neither going to help the marines nor improve our relations with india. i respect the indian legal system and have the deepest sympathy for the families of the fishermen that were killed, but as a former military officer i have sympathy for the plight of the marines. military personnel often have to make life-or-death judgments in very difficult circumstances and sometimes they get it wrong. these marines were part of an on-board armed protection team to counter piracy. it is such teams that have been the decisive factor in the major reduction in piracy in the high-risk areas of the arabian sea and the gulf of aden. of course i cannot make any judgments about the circumstances and legalities of this particular tragic incidence; nor can anyone else in this chamber. this is not a court of law and we do not know the answers to a whole range of legal questions and technicalities. it is certainly most distressing that this case has lingered on for three years now. this is unacceptable and every diplomatic effort should be made to bring the case to a rapid and fair conclusion. i urge the high representative particularly to use her good offices with the italian government, and also with the indian government, to help bring this about, and i would request our indian friends that we settle this matter quickly now with the best possible outcome for all concerned.
mr president, i rise to express my disappointment about the way in which this matter has been addressed by this house. i have strong reservations about the resolution proposed. i agree that we need to speed up developments to ensure legal certainty for all sides involved, but my concern is that the failure to address indian issues will do just the opposite. at the heart of this case is the fundamental question about how we treat our partners. while the eu has a duty to stand up for its citizens, it is hard to understand why the lives of two indian fishermen should be valued lower than the liberty of two eu citizens. that is the message that could be construed from our actions, and i not think that we can drown out indian calls for accountability. it is important that we remember that at the basis of this there is a legal dispute about jurisdiction, which needs to be addressed if we are to make headway. yesterday’s decision of the indian supreme court to allow mr latorre to extend his stay in italy is an indication of india’s goodwill. i urge my fellow meps not to reject that open hand. i call on ms mogherini to avoid further escalation of this case, which is fundamentally a bilateral issue between italy and india. that would only hurt all the parties involved, including the marines, and it could have far-reaching consequences for our foreign policy at a time when the eu is struggling to kick-start relations with delhi.
blue-card question. – would you agree with me that in this, as with many other things in life, size matters? what we have here is tens of thousands of civil servants trying to be involved in every part of life, with hundreds of billions of euros involved. it is simply impossible to run an effective organisation with such a huge remit, with so many great ambitions to be involved in so many things. this cannot possibly ever be run efficiently. would you agree?
mr president, i welcome today’s report, as it emphasises the crucial role that the ombudsman has to play and the importance of her three key pillars for the next five years: relevance, visibility and impact. the eu can sometimes appear as a faceless bureaucracy, and as parliamentarians we share a common duty with the ombudsman to make european democracy a tangible reality. our ombudsman has been leading from the front in this regard as her actions, particularly on ttip, demonstrate. a lack of transparency in the ttip negotiations has generated tremendous frustration across europe; it only reinforces people’s concerns. our ombudsman has responded proactively, investigating, requesting and obtaining greater transparency. this achievement bears testimony to the commitment and efficiency of our ombudsman. i will be voting for this report today as a sign of my support and recognition.
author. - madam president, following russia’s illegal annexation of crimea and its current military aggression in eastern ukraine, attention has largely focused recently on russia’s foreign policy rather than its domestic affairs. the case of alexei navalny reminds us, however, of the internal problems that russia also faces and of the increasingly authoritarian regime over which president putin presides. as one of the faces of the opposition movement at the forefront of many of the mass demonstrations recently seen in moscow, navalny’s placement under house arrest since february of last year on the basis of trumped-up and spurious charges is seen as a way to silence one of putin’s most outspoken critics. the arrest and sentencing of navalny’s brother is even more shameful, bearing in mind that he has no role in the protest movements and has been implicated by association, a tactic that we more familiarly associate with totalitarian regimes like north korea rather than with a full member of the council of europe. this case paints a painful picture of putin’s russia, and it should serve as a reminder of the regime we are dealing with. sadly it also has echoes of the khodorkovsky case a decade ago and demonstrates a serious lack of independence of the judiciary and the increasing role of the fsb – i.e. former kgb – in running putin’s russia. it is a very sad situation and we do hope that he is released immediately.
author. - madam president, the isis-affiliated pakistani taliban is intent upon trying to impose its warped and medieval view of the world on the people of pakistan, particularly in the tribal areas on the afghan border. its latest barbaric, murderous attack against a school is symbolic for much of what it stands, irrationally, in opposition to – enlightenment, education, progress and equal rights for women. it is tragic that so many people, particularly children, have had to lose their lives at the hands of such a vile ideology. the government of pakistan obviously needs to do more to combat this form of home-grown terrorism, looking more carefully at the options and capabilities at its disposal. i would also like to take this opportunity to look at the broader human rights situation in pakistan. the ahmadi muslims, for instance, continue to be discriminated against by law and face hardships, some even paying with their lives. the hudood ordinances and the blasphemy laws are also of particular concern to this house. pakistan’s gsp+ status is directly linked to its commitment to upholding universal human rights and, in my view, more needs to be done to ensure that pakistan is fulfilling these obligations it has made to the european union.
author. - madam president, all of us in this house share the profound shock and revulsion at the horrendous attack on the army public school in peshawar. it is the latest and bloodiest attack on schools in pakistan, and there have been over 800 of those attacks since 2009. there is quite a high level of illiteracy still in pakistan, and education is valued by many. therefore, an attack on education is actually an attack on the country’s future. i think we can understand, too, the anger of the people and the desire of the government to be seen to take strong action against those committing terrorist offences. nevertheless, the resolution reflects the fact that all of us, i think, regret the lifting of the moratorium on the death penalty in pakistan. the resolution has no number for those recently executed: it is now up to 19, as of this morning. the eu has a principled position on the death penalty, and we have expressed this in meetings in pakistan and in other countries of the world. i chair the delegation for this house to the countries of south asia, which includes pakistan, and i have raised this issue when we have been there. i find myself particularly uneasy about a number of the convictions of those currently being executed. some of those date from the times of the military regime, with allegations of confessions under torture and the use of military courts which do not have a full system of justice. such convictions do not meet the standards of justice to which pakistan is now committed under a number of human rights instruments which it signed up to and which are now linked to its generalised system of preferences (gsp) plus status. however, there is much to be welcomed in terms of the government’s move on education – universal and inclusive education for all children in pakistan. there are a number of other things to welcome, which we point out in this resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to say to the vice-president/high representative that her commitment to our parliamentary procedures is truly appreciated by the majority of members of this house. this resolution comes in truly tragic circumstances. they slay pakistani children to break their will. they slay our journalists to break our values. the perpetrators are of the same mind-set – mumbai or madrid or peshawar, pakistan, the perpetrators are one, and we must stand in defiance as one. let us send a clear message from this house to the people of pakistan that we stand firm and united with them at this time. high representative, we must safeguard measures we have already put in place in terms of our relationship with pakistan and actually start to build upon them. strengthening the pakistani economy is one prong that we must explore further. recent events demonstrate that we are all on the front line, but the front face is the people of pakistan, who have carried a very heavy burden on very weak shoulders on behalf of the international community.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the cold-blooded and barbaric attack in peshawar resulted in over 145 deaths and an even greater number of injuries, both physical and psychological. most of the dead were children, along with some brave teachers, like the principal, tahira qazi, who was deliberately and brutally burned alive in full view of the pupils. tehrik-i-taliban has claimed responsibility for this atrocity as revenge for the military offensive launched by the pakistani army. since 2003, when pakistan joined the american-led war on terror, over 60 000 pakistanis have died. that is the equivalent to twenty 9/11s. i have visited peshawar and the lady reading hospital where most of the injured and fatalities were brought. i can report that the facilities there are basic, and they can do with our help and support. i urge you to send a team of observers to see for yourself and to make good on our promises for support following the attack.
madam president, nothing can justify the brutality we witnessed a month ago in peshawar. it was an act of cowardice to attack a school and kill 132 defenceless children. unfortunately, pakistan is the biggest victim of terrorism: more than 70 000 people have lost their lives. this is the price pakistan is paying in trying to keep the world safe. afghanistan must assist and cooperate with pakistan in its fight against terrorism. a renewed international commitment to fight the financing and sponsorship of terrorism is needed. pakistan plays an important role in fostering stability in the region and should lead by example and strengthen the rule of law and human rights. the eu must not stand aside. we have to support pakistan in our fight against terrorism. as we walked arm in arm in paris in solidarity with france, we now also need to walk arm in arm with pakistan. we need to unite globally against radicalisation and extremism. no form of terrorism should be supported, and the eu must assist pakistan in tackling the threat of terrorism.
mr president, i would like to point out, under rule 162(6), that last night in various debates, including the one on egypt, blue cards and catch-the-eye were cancelled. we did not have genuine debate but a series of prepared statements. these things need to be scheduled better in future, but i would just like to draw your attention specifically to the wording of rule 162(6), which says ‘shall’, not ‘may’. i believe that there is no rationale which entitles parliament to cancel catch-the-eye. this is a part of parliamentary debate and people should be allowed to have their say. i just wanted to make that point.
mr president, the ombudsman’s remit is limited in legal terms to tackling maladministration but, in doing so, she has successfully had an impact, directly and indirectly, on enforcing eu law and helping eu citizens in this way, both individually and collectively. for this reason in particular, i am very glad to vote for this report. in my view, we do not have a democratic deficit in the eu so much as an enforcement deficit. citizens have vital rights that this parliament and its predecessors have voted through, and – whether it is passenger rights, environmental safeguards, the right to a paid holiday – these are not often enforced in the way that they should be. i am pleased that, when member states and the commission do not take infringement proceedings, as they should, in some cases the ombudsman has had an impact in those types of processes indirectly. i hope that she will do more in the coming years in this respect, both through critical remarks, special reports and in whatever other way is appropriate.
mr president, i have to explain to my voters why i voted against amendment 18 in the chamber today. the eu should have nothing to do with this. it is up to the individual nation states to seal their external borders. i am heartened that the nation states are deporting migrants onto flights organised by frontex. i only wish my government would do the same.
in writing. - despite having some concerns i voted in favour of the ombudsman’s annual report 2013 as i recognise the good work that emily o’reilly has carried out in her role as ombudsman, and so as to place on record my full support and confidence in her for the time ahead. i agreed with this report in the sense that it stressed the importance of transparency and good administration for the eu institutions. these principles should always be an absolute priority. it was worrying to note that 64.3% of the complaints received by her office concerned the european commission. i thought the rapporteur’s approach in relation to this was soft and found that he was trying to justify the number of complaints received. a strong line should have been taken against the actions of the european commission. i also believe that it was pretty weak on certain aspects, in particular as concerns frontex and ttip. in addition to this, there is little mention made of the ‘revolving door’ and cases of conflict of interest within the european institutions. the ‘revolving door’ practices in the european commission should absolutely be denounced, as should the lack of transparency and public participation in the ttip negotiations.
in writing. — this report contains various criticisms of the european commission. much of the text of the report can be supported; however, as with many such resolutions, there also appears to be a call for greater eu action. i therefore abstained on the motion for resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the walesa report because i believe the ombudsman plays a vital role in bringing the eu closer to its citizens by acting as a guardian for transparency, good administration and quality democracy. recent statistics show that the number of uk citizens who feel positive towards the eu has risen to 52%. now we need to pull the other 48% aboard, and we will only succeed if citizens are genuinely enabled to be part of the european project. i therefore deeply welcome the ombudsman inquiry into the implementation of the european citizens’ initiative, a tool launched in 2012 to increase citizens’ direct involvement in the eu decision-making process, to make sure it is working to full potential. her decision to investigate transparency in the ttip negotiations – an issue on which constituents write to me on a daily basis – moreover proves that the ombudsman is serious about addressing issues citizens are truly concerned about. however, these actions will only make a difference if the ombudsman’s recommendations are acted upon swiftly and decisively. together with colleagues, i intend to make sure this message is heard loud and clear by every single institution and agency working for the eu.
in writing. — i supported the report, as it seeks to establish the eu ombudsman as maintaining continuity in tackling systemic issues across all eu institutions.
in writing. — whilst i am sympathetic to the substance of the amendments tabled in relation to the economic crisis and scrutiny of the work of the troika, this issue is beyond the scope of this report. i therefore could not support the amendments tabled today, but hope to address this issue in dialogue with the eu ombudsman and in the context of my work in the european parliament’s committee on petitions.
in writing. — i voted for this report, which notes that overall compliance with the ombudsman’s recommendations stood at 80% in 2012, slightly down from 82% in 2011; supports the ombudsman in her ambition to improve the compliance rate; urges the commission, in particular, to make all efforts to improve its compliance rate; is concerned at the 20% non-compliance rate, and urges the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union to respond and react within a reasonable time frame to the critical remarks of the ombudsman and to make all the necessary efforts to improve their follow-up rate by prompt implementation of the ombudsman’s recommendations and critical remarks; looks forward to the specific information that will be provided in the ombudsman’s upcoming annual report on compliance in 2013.
in writing. — i voted in favour as the report seeks to establish the eu ombudsman as maintaining continuity in tackling systemic issues across all eu institutions, especially with regard to the tfeu.
in writing. — today i voted in support of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman 2013. the european ombudsman, emily o’reilly, was elected by the european parliament on 3 july 2013 and took her oath before the court of justice of the european union on 30 september. the ombudsman’s annual report 2013 therefore covers partly the work of the ombudsman’s office under her leadership and the other part consists of the work of her predecessor nikiforos diamandouros. the ombudsman’s strategy ‘towards 2019’ is founded on three main concepts: impact, relevance and visibility. in addition, observing the transatlantic trade and investment partnership negotiations closely would strengthen the role of the ombudsman as ‘guardian of eu transparency’.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the ombudsman’s annual report as the main priority of the european ombudsman is to ensure that citizens’ rights are fully respected and the right to good administration reflects the highest standards as expected of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union.
mr president, i supported this resolution because i believe a sustainable solution to the crisis in libya is long overdue and i sincerely hope that the new round of talks launched yesterday in geneva will allow all major stakeholders to reach a sustainable agreement on political transition and bring an end to the appalling humanitarian crisis. however, i believe that just voicing our support is not enough. it is crucial that we start working on a coordinated eu strategy that will allow us to assist a future united libyan government in bringing back stability, especially as terrorist groups are increasingly finding a fertile breeding ground in libya, posing a threat to citizens all over the world, including the eu.
mr president, unremarked and unreported, the libyan state is decomposing. we have all the classic ingredients of a failed state there – rival governments commanding rival structures, militiamen, closed airports – and it has all happened out of the media eye. it is a quite extraordinary thing: the way in which we seem capable of focusing only on one part of the world at any given time. it is as though we are controlled by that malicious demon of descartes that dictates our reality by controlling our senses. i hope that the denouement in libya has taught us the limits of our power. it was not long ago that the british and french heads of government were boasting about having averted catastrophe and put that country on the road to stability and democracy. if nothing else, maybe we will have been taught a lesson in modesty. there is a limit to what we can do outside our own area.
in writing. — i deplore the human rights abuses in libya. i am concerned about the potential consequences of military intervention. in the light of recent human rights abuses, i support the principle of this motion, although i am unable to vote for it as a ukip mep because of the nature of the requests for commission action, which has proved to be counterproductive in the past. consequently, i felt that i had no choice but to abstain.
in writing. — i very much welcome the resolution calling on the eu to do its utmost to support stabilisation in libya and for the un-led talks in geneva to bring together all factions in the country and halt what could become an all-out civil war. it is essential to bring back security within the country and to restore the democratic transition process, which is what the libyan people are awaiting and yearning for.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution. i am deeply concerned by the increasing presence of al-qaeda-linked terrorist groups, islamic state militias and other extremist organisations and movements in libya; i believe that the region risks ending in destructive chaos along the lines of what is happening in syria and iraq. i believe that these groups represent a major threat to the stability and security of the whole region, and also to the security of europe. i welcome the fact that the resolution reaffirms the need to combat by all means – in accordance with the charter of the united nations and with international law, including applicable international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law – threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
in writing. — i voted for the resolution as it is simply calling for a peaceful resolution of the on-going conflict in libya.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya on behalf of the s&d group. the resolution calls on all libyan parties to agree to an immediate ceasefire, end the fighting and engage in an inclusive national political dialogue. the vote passed today expresses the european parliament’s solidarity with the libyan people. we strongly condemn the recent military actions and violence and the human rights violations and abuses resulting from the ongoing fighting and military operations. the s&d group is deeply concerned by the suffering of the libyan civilian population and all migrants, expatriates and refugees stranded in libya.
in writing. — this week i voted with the s&d to call on the eu to support the stabilisation of libya. it is essential to bring back security within the country so as to restore the democratic transition process that the libyan people await and yearn for. if we do not act in libya then the entire region faces a credible security threat.
mr president, the need to send a strong signal on the situation in ukraine became clear once more when at least 11 people lost their lives on tuesday as a passenger bus came under heavy fire in eastern ukraine. the fact that this week’s kazakhstan summit had to be delayed because of failure to implement the ceasefire agreement is not only deeply worrying, it is also an insult to the thousands of people who have already fallen victim to this conflict, as well as to our own citizens, whose well-being is linked to the developments in ukraine. the only option for a sustainable solution is one that respects ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. we will be able to help bring this about only if we speak with a single, strong, coordinated voice. ukraine will be a crucial first test for the juncker commission on improving foreign policy coordination. failing is simply not an option.
mr president, ukip voted, unusually, for amendment 12, as it calls for the repeal of the eu-ukraine association agreement. the eu has no right to interfere in ukraine. the eu shook a stick at the russian bear and it reacted, and this led to brave young people’s deaths, directly encouraged by my colleagues here. then this place voted to impose sanctions against russia. yet who did the sanctions harm? the nation states of the eu trying to sell goods and services to russia. everything that this place does has unintended consequences.
mr president, european values, at least as understood in ukraine, are not synonymous with the european union. that may sound an obvious, even a banal, observation, but it is worth stressing the consequences. by european values, people mean the rule of the law, representative government, personal freedom, secure property and contract rights – essentially that the rulers do not get to change the rules as they go along but there is some judicial framework. now i would argue that you find those values in plenty of places outside the european union – in norway, new zealand or whatever – and in fact one place where you do not always find them is in the institutions of this union. it is the old joke that, if the eu were a country applying to join itself, it would be turned down for being insufficiently democratic. why do i say this? because people in ukraine, as well as yearning for westernisation, also have an aspiration to national independence. they understand – and we in this chamber would do well to remember – that those values are not the same as eu membership.
in writing. — i deplore the current situation in the ukraine. the actions of russia have been unacceptable, and it is right that the international community should take appropriate and proportionate actions such as sanctions (although i do not believe that this should be at eu level – rather a matter for individual nations and/or the un to determine). i am concerned that european union action may prove to be undue provocation due to the potential accession of the ukraine to the eu. i note that an amendment which would have sought to rescind the association agreement failed. consequently, i felt that i had no choice but to abstain on the motion for a resolution as a whole.
in writing. — mr president, it is right and proper that members of this parliament do not shirk their responsibility to highlight the abuses of fundamental freedoms currently witnessed in eastern ukraine and crimea. i am aware of several charitable and faith-based organisations from my own constituency, northern ireland, which have been working with people in communities ravaged by the current violence and unrest instigated by the russian intervention. we cannot ignore the reports of intimidation and the wave of disappearances that has taken place in these communities. in many cases, this has impacted religious minorities, including christians. the eu must reiterate full commitment to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine's borders. but, more importantly, it must ensure that help and support filters through, both in terms of assisting those worst affected through aid work and re-housing, and through allowing eu citizens who are working and living in conflict areas to access all necessary support to return home safely.
in writing. — i supported the resolution, as it stresses the need for the new ukrainian government to move forward the reform agenda and calls on all concerned parties to ensure a peaceful resolution of the crisis. the eu should assist the country to carry out reforms and to cope with its humanitarian and health emergency.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution as it reiterates support for non-recognition of crimea and clarifies that the sanctions imposed on russian individuals and industries is not directed against russia or its people but are means to finding a peaceful solution to the conflict in the region.
in writing. — i voted for this report and welcome its call for the resumption of a genuine and inclusive national dialogue that could also lead to a solution for the payment of social allowances and pensions and the provision of humanitarian assistance by the ukrainian government to the conflict-zone population; it takes the view that it is of crucial importance to impartially and effectively investigate all major moments of violence, including those of maidan, odesa, mariupol, slovyansk, ilovaysk and rymarska; it believes that civil society organisations can play an important role in facilitating people-to-people contacts and mutual understanding in ukraine, as well as promoting democratic change and respect for human rights; it urges the eu to step up its support for civil society.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine. today’s vote shows that the majority of members of the european parliament have expressed full solidarity with ukraine and its people. once again the european parliament has reiterated its commitment to the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and european choice of ukraine. together we condemn the acts of terrorism and criminal behaviour of the separatists and other irregular forces in eastern ukraine.
in writing. — the crisis in ukraine, including russia’s annexation of crimea in march 2014, continues to cause a strategic shock for europe. russian aggression has threatened the european security order that we have taken for granted since the end of the cold war. the sending of troops into crimea and arming militants in eastern ukraine has significantly heightened tensions in neighbouring countries, and it would seem that russia’s actions imply that the kremlin is no longer interested in a partnership with europe. in response to this violation of international law, the eu has adopted a number of sanctions against russia. even though a new government has been formed in ukraine, the situation in the east is still challenging, with the ceasefire constantly being broken by the russian-led separatists in addition to an upsurge of regular russian troops sent into the region. whilst it has been suggested that ukraine should attempt to compromise with russia, this currently seems implausible, as mr poroshenko recently tweeted ‘we are prepared for a scenario of total war’. my group wholeheartedly supports the territorial integrity of ukraine and continues to loudly call for withdrawal of russian troops from the eastern part of the region, and in crimea, the control over which must be returned to kiev.
in writing. — i voted with my s & d partners in support of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence of ukraine. the s&d group will continue to support the new ukrainian government’s efforts to build a new country. the only way forward and most effective defence for ukrainian sovereignty and independence is to rapidly implement reforms. these are needed in order to obtain a reliable and impartial judicial system, promote the rule of law, eradicate corruption, decentralise power and protect media freedom and minority rights.
mr president, the egyptian army seized power in 1952 and has not relinquished it, and everything we are talking about needs to be seen against that background. we have had, in the current government, a more repressive regime than we had under mubarak. mubarak never ordered the gunning down of unarmed demonstrators. yet all of the instances of repression, whether of journalists or of civil society or of opposition groups in egypt, are things that we effectively turned a blind eye to when we sanctioned the coup in the first place and refused to call it a coup. this repression does not become justified simply because sisi has made a good speech in cairo about the need for reform of islam, or simply because he has normalised relations with israel. on the contrary, if we set up as the only antonym to islamism a basically autocratic government then we kill the prospects for the development of moderate conservative democracy in the muslim world. we give people the wretched choice between generals and mullahs, which has been the curse of that region for two generations now. the people of egypt deserve better.
in writing. - i abstained on this motion for resolution on egypt. i was disappointed that reference to the case of ibrahim halawa was not included in the joint motion. sinn féin was successful in including his case in the gue/ngl resolution and it is regrettable that the joint motion does not mention him. as a prisoner of conscience who was imprisoned as a child following protests in august 2013, his case is an important example of the brutal repression of human rights, including the freedom of expression. i also regret that there was an emphasis on egypt as a strategic partner for trade and security for the european union. relations between the eu and third countries should not be predicated on trade issues – egypt’s citizens are currently experiencing severe repressions of their democratic rights to freedom of expression, speech and association. concern for the violation of their democratic rights should not be diluted by mentioning trade concerns.
in writing. — egypt is a country rightly proud of its historical and cultural traditions. it is dependent upon tourism for the growth of its economy. but recent events, and the erosion of civil liberties and human rights, have led to a decline in the tourist industry. in the light of recent human rights abuses, i support the principle of this motion although i am unable to vote for it as a ukip mep because of the nature of the requests for commission action – which has proved to be counterproductive in the past. consequently, i felt that i had no choice but to abstain.
in writing. — mr president, the current political climate in egypt has offered a vacuum for an escalation in violence and persecution against religious minorities, including christians living in that country. i would add my voice to those calling for a peaceful and democratic transition to a political system, an economy and a society that is inclusive and respectful of fundamental freedoms. events in france this month have sent shockwaves across the world and carry a message that the freedom of the press is not something that is easily secured or which can be taken for granted. with this in mind, i would call on the high representative to do all in her powers to seek the release of the three al-jazeera journalists currently awaiting trial in egypt. the freedoms of expression, speech and the press, as well as the right to a fair trial, are principles that should be at the core of the eu’s policy dialogue with egypt in the days ahead.
in writing. — egypt relies heavily on tourism, and any perception of instability or danger will ruin this industry. the government of egypt is ranked as one of the worst societies in the world in terms of freedoms. mubarak has recently been cleared of all charges and the government has an appalling record of working with its neighbours.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because we urgently need to send a strong signal to the sisi government that the human rights situation in egypt is unacceptable. 40 000 political activists have been made prisoners, hundreds are being sentenced to death in mass trials, civilians can be brought before military courts and ngos are facing stiff repression. we cannot close our eyes to this. i am particularly baffled by the fact that no one has been made to answer for the killing of over 1 000 demonstrators at the raba’a al-adawiya and an-nahda squares in august 2013. this crackdown will only be pushing greater numbers into the arms of terrorist organisations, and i find the potential role that could be played by western technology and equipment in enabling the egyptian authorities to repress its citizens deeply worrying. we need to take a strong stance, because our failure to act will not only jeopardize the lives of egyptians, but those of citizens all over the world, including our own.
in writing. — i very much welcome the resolution. the eu cannot turn a blind eye to all the repressions and human rights abuses happening in egypt. it must use all its available tools to stop this. only by building a truly pluralistic society that is respectful of the diversity of views can one ensure long-term stability and security in egypt.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution which reminds the egyptian government that the long-term success of egypt and its people depends on the protection of universal human rights and on the establishment and anchoring of democratic and transparent institutions also engaged in protecting citizens’ fundamental rights; it calls, therefore, on the egyptian authorities to fully implement the principles of international conventions.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution as i believe that the human rights situation in egypt as it stands is unacceptable.
in writing. — today alongside the s&d group i voted in support of the motion for a resolution on the situation in egypt. freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are indispensable pillars of a democratic and pluralist society, and freedom of the press and media is a vital element for democracy and an open society. since the military takeover of june 2013, the egyptian government has conducted a large-scale campaign of arbitrary detention, harassment, intimidation and censorship against government critics solely for exercising their rights to free assembly, association and expression, including journalists, students and human rights defenders, and against political opponents. this resolution calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all prisoners of conscience, all those detained for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression, assembly and association, as well as those detained for their alleged membership of the muslim brotherhood.
in writing. — this was not the subject of a roll-call vote. i believe, in the interests of democracy, that my constituents have the right to know how i voted. i therefore formally confirm that i chose to abstain on this motion.
in writing. - as i already stated during the debate in the presence of high representative mogherini, i believe the adoption of a resolution on the italian marines is premature and i hope that measures will be taken to make sure this initiative does not negatively influence eu-india relations at a time when the commission is already struggling to kick-start relations with delhi.
in writing. — i extend my condolences over the tragic death of the two indian fishermen. the consequences of the event should nevertheless be treated strictly within the rule of law, fully respecting the fundamental rights of those allegedly involved. the commission must stress the human rights situation in the framework of relations with india and consider further measures to facilitate a positive resolution to the case.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution which encourages the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to take any necessary action to protect the two italian marines in order to achieve a quick and satisfactory resolution to the case.
in writing. — i voted to adopt the resolution on the case of the two italian ‘marò. the consequences of the event of 15 february 2012, resulting in the death of the two indian fishermen, should be treated strictly within the rule of law, fully respecting the human and legal rights of those allegedly involved. the european parliament supports the efforts of all parties involved to work urgently towards a reasonable and mutually acceptable solution in the interest of all the families – indian and italian – involved, as well as of both countries.
mr president, the commission’s work programme contains a perfectly logical response to the crisis in the eurozone: more fiscal and economic harmonisation, including debt pooling, and common taxation and all of the other instruments of a common finance ministry. i completely understand that. but you must also see that it puts countries like mine in a very difficult position. plainly we never signed up either for political or monetary union. is there not a solution here that would leave all sides satisfied? is it not plain that countries – possibly not limited to the united kingdom, possibly other member states – who are not part of this federal vocation could negotiate some kind of associate membership where we stay in the single market but withdraw from the other policies – on justice and home affairs, foreign policy, environmental protection and so on? would that not take the sting out of our relations? you would be losing a bad tenant and you would be gaining a good neighbour.
mr president, ukip voted against amendment 6 because it effectively calls for a change in eu taxation policy where the end game is harmonisation of individual and corporate tax rates. this will lead directly to companies leaving the eu because it will become uncompetitive and stop growth and innovation, leading to massive job losses. let us be clear: we will stop you taking over the uk tax rates. although if labour wins the next general election, they get the keys to the treasury, so you might as well.
in writing. — there were various motions by the political groups on this matter. as a ukip mep i believe in the principle of national sovereignty. whilst the uk is in the eu, i believe that the european parliament should have as little influence as possible in the lives of the british people so i voted against the motions, or abstained, as appropriate.
in writing. — i voted against this as it effectively gives a common eu asylum visa, an open corridor for migrants, an allocation of migrants for distribution across eu states, funding and entitlement to work permits and equal rights to all eu countries. david cameron and his conservatives have no hope of curbing current immigration numbers, this will lead to a tsunami of migration the likes of which we have never seen.
on behalf of the ecr group, in writing. — in the votes on the seven group motions on the commission work programme the ecr only voted for its own text. the ecr motion offered a detailed and comprehensive assessment of the 2015 work programme. the motion gave a cautious welcome overall to the general approach taken by the commission in focusing on the economy and seeking reductions of the legislative and bureaucratic burden on businesses and individuals. but the motion also highlighted areas of serious concern and emphasised the group’s priorities on competitiveness and on respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the motion covered all the issues raised in the work programme in detailed and precise language as a result of thorough collective discussion. for these reasons, the ecr did not vote for any parts of any other group motions, even when the group was sympathetic to some of the content, as the ecr stands by the carefully considered collective positions taken in its own piece of work.
in writing. — mr president, i voted in favour of the ecr’s resolution on the commission’s work programme for 2015. the ecr’s resolution was the only one which put forward core priorities, such as growth and prosperity, in order to benefit citizens. furthermore, the emphasis on the prioritisation of the digital single market is key to bringing jobs to member states and to expanding our economies.
in writing. — ukip voted against paragraph 6 of the s&d resolution on the commission work programme 2015. we of course oppose any illegal action in the realm of tax. however, we cannot call on the eu to do anything, as this is a step in the direction of further tax powers being handed over to the undemocratic and unaccountable institutions of the eu. the second half of the paragraph calls for more eu legislation on country-by-country reporting for all cross-border companies. ukip will not support more eu legislation and eu red tape on businesses. ukip voted against split 1 on paragraph 9 of the epp resolution on the commission work programme 2015. ukip was elected to oppose all new eu legislation, get rid of existing eu laws, support powers to be returned to member states and campaign to leave the eu. as this text concerns the withdrawal of eu proposals, we voted against opposing the withdrawal of the named legislative proposals. only the unelected eu commission can initiate new, start to amend existing, or begin repeal of, eu legislation. no one who the people can vote for can change eu laws. this is why the eu is not legitimate in creating laws that the uk is forced to abide by.
in writing. - i am deeply disappointed that parliament has failed to reach agreement on the commission work programme for 2015, because this hampers parliament in its most crucial role, which is making sure the commission develops a programme that addresses citizens’ priorities, and holding the executive to account in the implementation of this programme. i believe our citizens deserve strong eu action that delivers growth, quality jobs and progress on tackling climate change. 25 million people in the eu do not have a job, over 224 000 of whom live in my region of the west midlands. if we really want to address this, we need to kick-start action on tackling tax havens and develop a truly integrated strategy for job creation. this means finally realising that the economy cannot be fuelled without adopting strong policies on issues like affordable housing, energy poverty, and education. it is equally disappointing that the commission has withdrawn the air quality package, while the future of the circular economy package is shrouded in clouds – pieces of legislation which have the potential to save lives and create hundreds of thousands of jobs. i hope the commission will finally connect the dots on all these issues in 2015.
in writing. — i strongly support the inclusion of the air and waste packages in the wp and voted as such in the specific votes today (paragraphs 16, 18, 21(1), 9(1) and 23). air quality in particular is a hugely important issue for european citizens, and we cannot underestimate the benefits, both for the health of our nations and to the wider environment, that would be found with improved legislation in this area. better regulation is of the utmost importance, and i welcome the commission’s quest to weed out legislation that is ineffectual, intractable or just plain bad. it is, however, imperative that we do not sacrifice the potential benefits by scrapping legislation with potential in such a wholesale manner. i am confident that on the air quality package the co-legislators can come up with a solution that delivers real value here without imposing unnecessary burdens on industry or member states.
in writing. — i do not believe the work programme is adequate in the areas of job creation and social protection and i think we need a strong line on tax havens and environmental policy. i therefore voted for the s&d resolution, which disagrees with the commission’s intention to withdraw a number of legislative proposals, notably the air quality package and the maternity leave directive, calls to address the growing issue of precarious employment including zero hour contracts, asks for a full revision of the posting of workers directive and for a radical and effective change in eu taxation policy, urging the commission to make an unequivocal commitment to the fight against tax fraud.
in writing. — i regret that no resolution on the commission work programme 2015 was carried and therefore parliament is silent in response to the commission proposals.
in writing. — the eplp have pushed to ensure that fighting zero hour contracts as well as tax evasion and strengthening environmental policy is a priority for the european parliament.
in writing. — ukip voted against paragraph 6 of the s&d resolution on the commission work programme. ukip opposes any illegal action in the realm of tax. however, we cannot call on the eu to do anything, as this is a step in the direction of further tax powers being handed over to the unaccountable eu institutions. the second part calls for more eu legislation on country-by-country reporting for all cross-border companies. ukip will not support more eu red tape on businesses. ukip voted against split 1 on paragraph 9 of the epp resolution on the commission work programme. ukip was elected to oppose new eu legislation, get rid of existing eu laws, return powers to member states and campaign to leave the eu. as this concerns the withdrawal of eu proposals, we voted to support the withdrawal. ukip abstained on split 2 on paragraph 9 of the epp resolution on the commission work programme concerning the withdrawal of the maternity leave directive. while on the one hand we certainly support the reduction of eu legislation; we are not against maternity leave, which other parties would wrongfully attack us for if we voted in favour.
in writing. — ukip voted against paragraph 6 of the s&d resolution on the commission work programme. ukip opposes any illegal action in the realm of tax. however we cannot call on the eu to do anything, as this is a step in the direction of further tax powers being handed over to the unaccountable eu institutions. the second part calls for more eu legislation on country-by-country reporting for all cross-border companies. ukip will not support more eu red tape on businesses. ukip voted against split 1 on paragraph 9 of the epp resolution on the commission work programme. ukip was elected to oppose new eu legislation, get rid of existing eu laws, return powers to member states and campaign to leave the eu. as this concerns the withdrawal of eu proposals, we voted to support the withdrawal. ukip abstained on split 2 on paragraph 9 of the epp resolution on the commission work programme concerning the withdrawal of the maternity leave directive. while on the one hand we certainly support the reduction of eu legislation; we are not against maternity leave, which other parties would wrongfully attack us for if we voted in favour.
in writing. — today i voted with the majority of the members in support of the commission work programme 2015. labour meps have called for more action on workers’ rights and tackling tax dodging. tory and ukip meps voted against the s&d motion calling for the commission to clamp down on large-scale tax avoidance. the s&d group strongly supports the measures to fight tax fraud and tax evasion and stress the need for more efficient use of taxpayers’ money and for further steps to protect the union’s financial interests.
mr president, for decades turkey was the great democratic success story in the muslim world. when the arab spring risings happened you heard the same sentiment expressed all across the region, from morocco to jordan. people would say: ‘we want to be like turkey. we want to be a free-market, pluralist, multiparty, secular muslim democracy.’ that places a particular burden on our turkish allies to hold themselves to a higher standard. it may well be the case that there is, as turks say, a parallel state, with supporters of the gülen movement in parts of the security services. it may well be the case that they have sympathisers in the media. i think even the gülen people themselves do not deny that they have a network in the security apparatus. of course, we can see what journalists have said about it. but none of that justifies lowering your standards. on the contrary, it places you under an obligation to behave more cleanly than you otherwise would. turks deserve better; we expect better.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because recent attacks on the media by the turkish government are deeply worrying. it is simply shocking that turkey currently has one of the highest numbers of jailed journalists in the world. turkey is an extremely important partner for the eu in many fields – not least for our economy and in the fight against terrorism – but it will only continue to be so if it returns to the path of democracy and respect for civil rights. it is in all our interests that we work together to make this happen. that is why, while we do need to make clear that this situation is in no way acceptable to us, it is also important not to allow parties on the right to use this as a pretext to call for halting accession negotiations. this will benefit neither eu citizens nor the turkish, as it will only result in taking away the most important sticks and carrots we have for encouraging istanbul to increase media freedom and improve collaboration with the eu in areas of common interest.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution which condemns the recent police raids and the detention of a number of journalists and media representatives in turkey on 14 december 2014, and stresses that these actions call into question respect for the rule of law and freedom of the media, which is a core principle of democracy.
in writing. — i supported the resolution as i believe that there are worrying developments in turkey. the resolution calls on the turkish government to follow through on its declared intention to reinvigorate the eu accession process with concrete actions, such as putting an immediate end to the harassment of the critical and independent media.
in writing. — i voted alongside my s&d colleagues to support the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey. the resolution focuses on recent arrests of journalists and media executives and systematic pressure against the media in december 2014. these actions call into question respect for the rule of law and freedom of the media, which is a core principle of democracy. turkey should work on reforms to guarantee freedom of thought, of expression and of the media, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. at a time when freedom of expression is under threat everywhere, the motion underlines the importance of press freedom and respect for democratic values in terms of the eu enlargement process.
in writing. — freedom of expression is a vital component of any democracy, as one of the key tools with which to hold government to account. this fundamental right faces increasing pressure in president erdogan’s turkey and i am pleased to see the topic on this week’s agenda. the number of journalists imprisoned in turkey has long been of concern, but the past year has seen an increasing number of high-profile arrests as part of a clear assault on freedom of the press. erdogan’s ill-fated attempt to block access to twitter during last year’s presidential election fits only too well into this narrative, and we should welcome the constitutional court’s ruling against that ban. indeed, amidst the myriad of reports questioning the turkish judiciary’s independence, particularly in light of the corruption scandal last year, i am only too pleased take advantage of this opportunity to offer praise to the judiciary. the assault on press freedom and expression are illustrative of the wider changes that we are witnessing in turkey as it moves away from the shared values it was hoped it would have with the eu
in writing. — sadly, the efdd amendment to this resolution was rejected. the motion therefore encourages turkish eu membership. whilst much of the rest of the sentiment of this motion is laudable, i could not vote in favour of a motion containing such text. i therefore abstained on the resolution.
in writing. — i supported the resolution, as i am very concerned over backsliding on democratic reforms in turkey. the government should address media freedom as a matter of priority and provide an adequate legal framework to guarantee pluralism in line with international standards. these developments, however, call for more, not less, engagement with turkey. respect for fundamental freedoms is at the heart of the eu accession negotiation process. opening new negotiating chapters on the rule of law and human rights could increase the pressure and help the country address the reforms needed.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the atrocities in paris were shocking. as rapporteur for the eu pnr, it is clearly an important piece of the jigsaw in the eu’s coordinated approach to fighting not only terrorism, but also serious crime. the european data protection supervisor (edps) has stated that this parliament does not have to wait for a new data retention directive or data protection package. i intend to apply the highest data protection standards and the judgment of the european court of justice to my proposals. the eu counter-terrorism coordinator says the use of pnr data reduces ethnic profiling. europol says there are over 3 000 eu foreign fighters radicalised, military trained, returning to the eu and exploiting the gaps and deficiencies in law-enforcement information exchange across the eu. this directive would help to address that. at present there is no eu legal framework for citizens or the airlines and no clear legal or administrative redress in the use of data. my directive would provide these rights and clear legal boundaries. i ask the political groups and members to work with me and cooperate with me. we can find a solution together to protect lives and to protect civil liberties.
mr president, i would just like clarification on why blue cards are not being taken because this question was, of course, asked at the last strasbourg part-session. if we do not have the opportunity to question speakers then what happens in this chamber is merely a series of pre-prepared statements; it is not a debate. this question was supposed to go back to the bureau but there has been no explanation whatsoever. so i would like to know, please: is there a reason why we are not having a debate today and could it be communicated to us if there is?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, as i speak, we are in a building which is guarded by the belgian army in full combat dress, and that tells us all we need to know about the terror threat we face from extremist islam. we have already witnessed attacks in london, madrid, brussels and now paris. and let us be honest here: it is not a case of ‘if’ there is another attack; it is a case of ‘when and where’. we can prepare all we want, but none of this will be successful if we do not have the cooperation of the muslim communities themselves. europe’s muslims must do more to root out extremists that exist in their midst. they must take responsibility in order to cut out this cancer. may i suggest that they follow the lead of president al-sisi of egypt, who recently attended a coptic mass and called on islamic scholars to renounce jihad. we must also deal with the thorny issue of turkey. it is the same turkey which turns a blind eye to extremist muslims hopping over the border to fight in syria for isis. it is the same turkey which idly stood by and did almost nothing whilst the border town of kobane was under attack. it is the same turkey which has received nearly eur 1 billion from this place in pre-accession funding, and it is the same turkey that all of the british political parties, except my own, want in the european union. therefore, if we want to tackle terrorism in europe, then firstly we need europe’s muslims on side; secondly we must hold turkey to account; and thirdly we must control our own borders.
mr president, firstly allow me to express my personal sympathy and that of my constituents in northern ireland following the recent abhorrent attacks and loss of life. today, we stand with communities in france and in northern nigeria, and indeed with those from the jewish community experiencing the awful rise of anti-semitism. as a member of this parliament from northern ireland, i know all too well how the threat and the out-workings of terrorism can have devastating consequences, not only for the victims and their families, but also for a nation’s consciousness. in northern ireland we are privileged to have committed police and armed forces, and today as we assess anti-terrorism measures across europe, member states must ensure that their forces are given all the necessary resources to succeed in this fight against terror. the charlie hebdo rallies in paris and across france show a resilience of character that says the bullet and bomb will not prevail. such resilience of character was also evident in my community as the ira waged a campaign of terror. we held similar rallies after the enniskillen bomb, after the omagh bomb and other atrocities and, while the ira was defeated, sadly for many justice still evades them and those scarred by terrorist activities. today’s debate is about stopping terrorism, but every day we in this house must focus on the rights and needs of victims of terrorism.
mr president, like the commissioner, i will be going to riga at 5 p.m. to have the honour of representing parliament in the negotiations. listening to some of the contrasting views, it might be thought that this will be a very difficult task. in fact, i would suggest it is not as difficult as colleagues would think. the chair of my political group and other colleagues have actually said that if, notwithstanding the views of mr albrecht, they believe that pnr is something which can be justified by the commissioner, that pnr is not objectionable in principle, in terms of proportionality and necessity, and that we have the requisite safeguards – with, as ms hohlmeier said, actual solidarity, and the civil liberties that my colleague ms sippel talked about – then together we can achieve this. however, i would say to the commissioner, on behalf of the parliament and of my own group, that we have to build trust. the way to do this is to point out that pnr is not the only component of this strategy and road map against terrorism. this is about radicalisation and about europol getting all the necessary leads against terrorism, as the commissioner said. fighting terrorism is about the causes of terrorism, and it is about a whole range of things – as many speakers have said today – because, if it is not about these things, then we cannot unite here in parliament against terrorism, which is such a complex issue. we should unite but we should not fool our public by pretending this is not a complex issue. we should work together with the commission and the council, in a sophisticated and compassionate way, to achieve our objectives while safeguarding civil liberties and ensuring that component is taken seriously in the council meetings. i hope my colleagues will help us and help, with the council and the commission, in these discussions.
mr president, i wonder what scale of atrocity it would take before all members of this parliament understand that strong security measures, exercised with proper oversight by our democratically-elected governments – possibly assisted in limited areas by the european union – are necessary to combat a serious terrorist threat. i must say that i am astonished by some of the views that have been expressed today. in relation to the terrible terrorist attacks in paris, one of our colleagues remarked that the perpetrators were known. so what would he have done? i suspect he would be the last person that would see the logical conclusion from what he has just said, and that is that all these suspects should be locked up. that would be the conclusion from what he has just said. in these times of heightened terrorist threat our intelligence and security services need the ability to penetrate the black hole that parts of the internet have become and to identify the patterns of behaviour that might enable terrorists to be identified. we need pnr, but it is just one of many measures that need to be taken. let us also, by the way, avoid exploiting yet another crisis in order just to give the eu more powers and competence. it is about being effective in our member states.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, first of all allow me to express my thanks to all of you for your contributions to this very interesting and important debate. in the face of the monstrous attacks this month, and in responding to the ongoing threat of terrorist attacks, europe must remain strong and united in its response. do not have any doubt that the commission will do its part to support the response at eu level, and we will work hand in hand with parliament and, obviously, with member states in our common goal of keeping europe open and secure. on eu pnr, since many members of this parliament referred to that, i want to clarify once again that our position remains unchanged. the commission is committed to working together with the co-legislators to achieve a legal instrument which is both effective and fully in line with fundamental rights. we are very carefully assessing all options regarding how the commission can best help the european union legislators to reach a quick and effective result on the eu pnr proposal. allow me to thank the rapporteur, mr kirkhope, for the work he is currently doing. we will be next to him. on the implementation of existing measures: this is indeed a priority for us. the commission is expecting responses by 15 march from all member states. on schengen now: yes, i agree with mr verhofstadt. schengen is not a problem, it is part of the solution, and i explained in my opening remarks how we need to make the maximum use of the existing possibilities, and the best use of this tool. i would like to thank you again for this very timely debate. i have received one important message out of this which is that we should be united; work together here, but also with all the institutions. the commission is committed to working with you for the benefit of all citizens, to defend their rights and their security, to work with you in trust and in unity.
in writing. – i am disappointed to hear references in today's debate to the european arrest warrant, a pernicious piece of legislation which allows uk citizens to be extradited without the case ever being heard by a british court to weigh up whether the evidence is sufficient to warrant extradition. even more disturbingly, the british conservative party chose to opt back into this legislation when it had the opportunity to do so and stifled the westminster parliament in the process. we need strong national security and borders to counter terrorism; let us by all means share best practice with our european neighbours but security must be sovereign.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the ecr welcomes the fact that the commission wants to narrow the investment gap in europe. but i often speak to investors who have money to invest, but are scared off by red tape and see other parts of the world as far more attractive. so i think we need to recognise that this fund will not be a silver bullet. in fact probably the most important part of the proposal is not the fund itself but a so-called third pillar. what we need to do is cut red tape and bring down those barriers to investment. let me give you one example. i currently lend to entrepreneurs around the world via a successful american peer-to-peer lending platform. this platform tells me that they want to come to europe but they are worried that eu legislation would not allow their business to succeed. so the true test of success here is not how many roads are built or how many pipelines are laid, but it is how many entrepreneurs will get financing and create sustainable jobs. and once they start their businesses, we need to make sure that eu legislation does not shut them down. since the beginning of the year, digital businesses now have to pay vat in the country of the customer rather than the country of sale. now we know that this law was aimed at the big businesses such as amazon which sell via low tax countries, but this one-size-fits-all legislation is also shutting down microenterprises selling digital products such as ebooks, online designs, or online knitting patterns for example. they cannot afford to check on customers in 28 member states. there is no vat threshold and if they refuse to sell to customers in other eu countries they are now being told that they may be breaking eu anti-discrimination laws. so they are damned if they do and they are damned if they don’t. so what do they do? they close down. so by all means let us speak in this house about helping smes, by all means let us talk about a digital single market, by all means let us talk about these investment programmes, but, if we are at all serious, let us rip away the red tape that is harming businesses today, here and now. until we do that, no amount of investment will close the gap. the songwriter bob dylan once asked, ‘how roads must a man walk down?’ but let me ask how many investors have to leave the eu before we remove the barriers? how many microbusinesses have to close down before we solve the vat moss problem? how many people have to be unemployed before we open the markets? i fear, as bob dylan would say today, ‘the answer, my friend, is blowing in the wind. the answer is blowing in the wind’.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i recognise that mr katainen is one of the commissioners who seems to have an understanding and sense of the real dire economic situation that europe and the eurozone are in. i welcome that. after the crash of 2008, the eurozone is the only region in the world that is not growing. the impacts on its people are severe – unemployment, suicides, austerity impacting everybody – and we see that only more significantly in greece. mr katainen, well-meaning people are coming to try and find solutions, but the solution you are seeking with the strategic investment fund is not the correct solution. in a desperate desire to match the growth and success of the united states, academics across europe came up with a false solution: that of the euro. they worked hard on it. they pontificated on it. they held seminars on the euro. if only you could recognise that it is the euro that is causing the problem, and that relieving yourself of the euro would mean that you would not have to try and spend eur 20 billion to create eur 315 billion.
madam president, we need investment. we need private sector investment and investors, entrepreneurs and small businesses need to know that we are on their side. my email box is full of horror stories of small business which have shut and stopped trading in the fasting growing sector of our economy: digital entrepreneurs. our new vat rules are meant to be for big companies trying to avoid taxes but, for small companies, they are too complicated, too expensive and do not work in the digital age. they do not work for microbusinesses. they need an exemption. i say to the council, the ball is in your court. please do not just talk about changing this. do not just think about changing it. that will not be taken seriously. council, please, give microbusinesses an exemption. just do it.
madam president, i think the package put on the table by vice-president katainen is an important step. however, my group has been asking for this for years – saying we need more investment – because it is quite clear that just the austerity measures on their own have not kick-started growth. therefore i welcome this legislative proposal for a strategic fund that is in front of us, but the onus is on all of us to make it work and ensure that we have implementation forthwith. to get it right we need to do a lot of work. the main points that i think some of the other colleagues have raised are that the selection of the right projects is essential and that they do add eu added value and are not just projects that would have been funded in any case. and member states have to inject some more money into the fund, in a flexible way, in their national budgets. the question i would like to ask vice-president katainen is: who will decide on these projects? you said that parliament will have a role in hearings but will we have a meaningful role in terms of the actual projects decided?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am struck again, as we sit in this chamber, by the fact that we entered the lima discussions with such high hopes and i believe we left them with such low expectations. success is not final and failure is not fatal. it is the courage to continue that counts. so we must leave behind some of those disappointments in lima and cast our eyes towards what we can finally achieve in paris. on hearing some of the questions from colleagues, even in my own group, i realise this is going to be a challenge – not just a global challenge but a challenge for europe itself. we must make sure – and i believe the commission must adhere to this – that in going forward, when we consider mitigation and adaptation, we provide adequate support for adaptation both within the eu and more broadly.
mr president, successful political activity or campaigns should focus on that sound military adage ‘never reinforce failure: follow up success.’ two facts are clear. first, as we have said before, the climate is refusing to cooperate with forecasts: the figures show that since 1995 global warming has not been happening. this parliament and national governments should concentrate on the practical measures which, in a period of austerity, are causing events like the greek revolt. we should not and must not pursue policies and agreements which exacerbate europe’s downturn and comparative decline. applying my adage, that fact is clear. fact two is that we do have one clear success to report: on ozone. there is international agreement that action here seems to be working. the un tells us that we have the first signs of thickening, that over the next decade there should be a clear win, and that it can only happen if the whole world acts. hence the need for world action ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as the commission and council are aware, before we get to paris in december the un will be considering the sdg process at the summit in september in new york. as they also know, goal 13 of the sustainable development goals is to tackle climate change. so i have two questions for them: how are you linking these two processes, both within the commission and the council? for colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, every country on the planet will have to adopt the sustainable development goals, and implement them: it is not like the millennium development goals. yet we are not talking, even in this parliament, in those terms. we are not linking the two things together. so i particularly want to hear from the commission how they are working and how this will impact on the finance for development, because we can be certain that, even if we are not linking these issues, the g77 are linking them, and success in new york will determine success in paris.
in writing. – in the uk, nearly 70% of people say we are not doing enough to tackle climate change. yet british politicians on the right choose to ignore this, claiming – in blatant disregard of the scientific consensus that exists among 97% of the world’s leading climate scientists – that the link between rising carbon dioxide levels and human activity is ‘open to question’. the eu is in a unique position to take effective measures that respond to the aspirations of our citizens. firstly, moving forward the european energy union will be crucial. little progress was made on this under the former commission. this commission has to do things differently. an important test will be the roadmap on energy union which we expect to see next month and which should put us firmly on the path towards a sustainable, decarbonised economy based on renewables. secondly, the emissions trading scheme (ets) needs urgent reform. i find it extremely disappointing that proposals put forward by my party to address this issue in an effective way were brushed off the table last week. however, we succeeded in blocking an attempt from the right to further water down reform of the ets, and our battle continues.
mr president, my constituency of the west midlands is currently missing out on gbp 718 million of eu funding, entirely due to the incompetence and arrogance of the conservative government of the uk. every other member state has been able to agree its operational programmes with the commission. the tory government of the uk cannot because they insist that they want to give the money to local enterprise partnerships which, unelected and unaccountable as they are, the commission is unsurprisingly not happy with as channels for public funds. in the west midlands we are talking about gbp 140 million for the black country, gbp 107 million for coventry and warwickshire, gbp 201 million for greater birmingham and solihull, gbp 127 million for stoke-on-trent and staffordshire, gbp 90 million for the marches and gbp 54 million for worcestershire. we are not getting it because of the tory government.
mr president, i would like to use this opportunity to bring to your attention a gross infringement of the rights of my constituents, the citizens of gibraltar, who are also fellow citizens of the eu. i refer to the issue of the single european sky recast proposal. the commission had originally included explicit language referencing the cordoba agreement and the fact that the proposal would apply in full to gibraltar. in march 2014, this plenary voted in favour of an amendment to exclude gibraltar and its citizens. that vote was discriminatory and unacceptable. imagine the outcry if we had excluded eu citizens on the basis of gender or ethnicity! yet we did so on the basis of nationality. this is now blocked in council – and rightly so – by the uk government, but as a result no citizen in europe can now benefit from the new single european sky regulations. so i call on fellow members to stand up for eu citizens and ensure that this parliament reverses the discriminatory position.
mr president, in 1984, 37 cammell laird shipworkers were jailed for 30 days and lost their right to a proper redundancy and pension because of striking against politically motivated job cuts. last year in the committee on petitions eddie marnell explained that, in spite of the fact that no law was broken, the strikers were never told why. investigations into historical miscarriages of justice, like the battle of orgreave, have shown that, despite denials from the then government, secret closure plans existed and conservative ministers at the time sought to influence police tactics and put pressure on them to escalate industrial disputes. access to official documents is key to ensuring justice for those on the receiving end. these workers’ fundamental rights were violated and the commission should press the uk government to release the information needed to ensure that cammell laird workers and our coalfields get the long-awaited justice they deserve.
mr president, last friday i visited dairy farmers in my constituency in northumberland in the north-east of england and i met with farmers chris mcdonald and richard and dennis gibb. richard and dennis have 300 cows on their farm and as a result of the fall in the price of milk over the last eight months they are now receiving a dip in income of a quarter of a million pounds. they are clearly struggling, as are dairy farmers across the uk. what is to be done? one thing that customers can do is ask their supermarket managers if they are ensuring that they are paying a fair price for all of the milk that they have on sale in the supermarket. customer power can be used to deliver a fair price for our farmers. it is right that dairy farmers milk cows, but it is wrong if supermarkets and customers milk dairy farmers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would hope that this is pretty uncontroversial. we think that this is a poorly entitled resolution before we have even started on it. to look at just the violence caused by is, which is of course deplorable, is to miss the fact that there is an awful lot of other violence going on within these two countries which is causing an ongoing humanitarian situation. to focus this simply on is, we think, misses a point and misses a wider agenda that would be addressed by ‘the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, in particular in the is context’, because it is right that we should take account of is, of course, but there is a much wider picture which this house should really be cognisant of. so i would hope that colleagues will support this – i hope – sensible change.
mr president, i too would like to thank the committee on legal affairs for putting ipr enforcement on the agenda of this week’s plenary and to thank commissioner bieńkowska for her clear response on what the role of the expert group and the role of the observatory will be. to create a digital single market requires action on ipr enforcement, as consumers require complete trust in the goods which they are purchasing online and that they do not infringe ipr. if you consider that 39% of eu gdp, worth eur 4.7 trillion annually, relates to ipr intensive industries, which account for 35% of all employment in the eu, those who commit ip crime deny revenue to national tax authorities, damage consumer trust and discourage entrepreneurs and smes from innovating and investing, particularly in the digital space. i welcome the commission’s initiative and the proposed ten-point plan on ipr enforcement and the clarity on what the commission’s expert group will do and what the observatory does in this field. i am pleased that the commission will allow meps to observe their expert group and hope that the meps chosen will reflect the range of committees in this house which share an interest in ipr enforcement.
blue-card question. – i was really interested in your speech. i am a new person here, i was only elected in may, but the thing that i have noticed, and i wonder if you would agree, is that the main thing this place is really good at is creating new committees, new bureaucracy and new ways of shuffling paper rather than actually attending to some efficient business. would you agree that that is the main strength of this place?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, our internet must be open, yet safe; accessible, yet affordable; exciting, diverse and dynamic. we in europe start from a great position: the world economic forum has listed the most technology-ready countries and the top three are all in europe. but to unleash the potential we must earn trust. consumers need to know that their rights are protected and their data is secure and treated responsibly. creators need to know that their work, their ip, has value. investors need to know that we politicians are not going to keep changing the rules that affect their investments. and businesses need to know that they have a level playing field where small companies are not unfairly blocked by the big ones and where new innovators are not blocked by the old. an open internet is essential but in safeguarding net neutrality we must take care not to inadvertently place barriers on future innovations. in safeguarding privacy we must not undermine the security of our societies or the safety of our children. in safeguarding data we need to make sure we do not place unworkable burdens on small businesses or lose the chance for society to benefit from the understanding from big data. and yes, we must care for fundamental rights, but we are also at a time when our fundamental safety is under great pressure. yes, we need to take advice from security experts, safeguard our rights, but provide the means to guard our citizens’ safety. to deliver this vision we need a global approach, not a fortress europe: working with a multitude of stakeholders, listening to consumers and to business, the public as well as public authorities. i hope the igf will help this process and it will all be better because of our working together.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, if there is a phrase which should put all of us on our guard, it is that of internet governance. every politician who believes in freedom of thought, expression or religion, or in free enterprise, should feel a chill at the words ‘internet governance’. the themes of the meetings of the igf over recent years have been full of feel-good buzz words, but that is all they are. the existence and growth of the internet and its facilitation of the exchange of ideas horrifies established elites who are no longer able to control and manipulate information to their advantage. for them the internet is the greatest threat to the established order since the publication in the late middle ages of the bible in the vernacular. eternal vigilance is needed to ensure that governance is not merely a cover for state control. plainly there should be the means of preventing the dissemination of, for example, child pornography, or material that facilitates terrorism. but every attempt to control freedoms and free enterprise should be fiercely resisted. secondly, we must remember that the internet is largely the creation of free enterprise. when we hear anyone talking about how governments must act to promote or provide growth for the internet, we must never forget that governments are pretty much incapable of managing their own it projects, and the notion of the governments being the driver of growth on the internet is illusory. the principal duty of the igf should be to guard the freedom of the internet and to create the conditions in which free enterprise can flourish, not to introduce pettifogging regulations which clog its arteries. by all means have agreements on internet addresses and international standards for internet hardware, but leave ordinary human beings alone to promote the internet as a motor for freedom and growth.
mr president, the internet’s great strength is the freeing of information to all. you can access more information now through a small hand-held, relatively cheap device than in the greatest of libraries in the past. so no surprise then that politicians seek to control and to govern this, because knowledge is power, and knowledge is freedom. yes, we must guard against abuses and, yes, we must never allow crime to thrive through the internet, but we must also make sure that politicians never control the net. controlling knowledge means that the status quo is maintained. i say, let the information and knowledge flow free. let the people know the truth and let us have an information and knowledge-inspired democratic revolution where freedom of speech and true democratic democracy come back to all of europe. that would be a great day.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is several years since the food information regulation was agreed. from the vote in parliament at the time, it was clear that meps wanted country-of-origin labelling for all meat, including meat in processed foods. and although in the negotiations we finally agreed on origin labelling for fresh meat, meps and member states were subjected to a huge lobbying campaign from industry. in the end, unfortunately, we could not get agreement from the council on meat in processed foods. but of course, consumer groups were at a massive disadvantage, because they just cannot compete with the lobbying resources available to industry. the commission report states that the costs will increase if we have country-of-origin labelling. however, the commission’s report was based totally on industry self-reporting. so what did you expect? consumer organisations were invited to the focus groups, but it is clear to me they did not and do not endorse the report’s findings. consumer research from france found that labelling the meat in a frozen lasagne cost just 1.5 euro cents, and for a bolognese sauce it would be less than a cent. hardly that expensive, i think. and you know, if they really thought about it, this could be really good for the food industry, helping to restore the trust in their supply chain that has been so badly damaged in recent years due to the horsemeat scandal. what is really important is that over 90% of consumers say they want to know where the meat in the processed food they buy comes from. all we want is clear, honest food labelling. surely consumers should not be misled. if a beef lasagne is labelled as a british product, that should mean it is made with british beef, and if it is labelled as a french product, it should be made with beef from france. it is not that difficult to understand. this parliament led the way on labelling of nutritional information, on labelling of palm oil, on labelling of allergens to enable consumers to make informed choices about the food that they give to their families. this week we must send a clear, strong message to the commission to bring forward proposals for mandatory country-of-origin labelling of meat in processed food. it is clearly what parliament wants; it is clearly what the farmers want and, more importantly, it is clearly what consumers want. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. it is not just about quality. many people want to know where their meat comes from, for a whole range of reasons. it might be for environmental reasons, it might be the air miles that are travelled, it might be about the way the meat is produced – the standards of husbandry. if i buy a chicken sandwich and it says ‘produced in britain’ i expect to know whether the chicken is from britain or thailand. people have a right to know that. and, yes, i get lots of people telling me they want this legislation. ninety per cent of consumers is a large, significant number.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as of april next year, eu consumers will know, when buying a pig cutlet or a chicken fillet, where the animal was reared and slaughtered. however, if they bought a pork pie or a chicken nugget, they would not have a clue as to the origin of their meat. today’s proposal will bring a consistency with the new rules on country-of-origin labelling of unprocessed as well as processed meat. the 2013 horsemeat scandal not only shattered public trust, it reinforced consumers’ demands for information on how and where food is produced. whilst no silver bullet against fraud, compulsory labelling of meat in processed foods would oblige food makers to keep a tighter grip on their suppliers and would make them more accountable for what they put into their food products. research, as we have heard from the commission and consumer organisations across the eu, consistently tells us that 90% of europeans do care about the origin of their meat. they want to find this information on the label, whether the meat is fresh or used as an ingredient. the beef labelling model, whereby the animal’s country of birth, rearing and slaughter must be given, has raised consumers’ expectations, and people want to know the animal’s full journey from farm to table, because a more transparent meat supply chain will benefit not only consumers and businesses alike but make it harder for less scrupulous operators to cut corners. some industry groups report that price increases of 15 to 50% would be triggered by mandatory labelling. firstly, these increases are seen as scaremongering by some consumer organisations, and secondly, most people do not conceive of having to pay for knowing such basic information as the origin of the food on their plate. colleagues, we have the opportunity to improve our food chain and make it more transparent. the public wants it, and we should believe that we should act in the public’s interest. please support the commission’s call to come forward with legislation.
mr president, the powers that be must not muddle three separate issues as, although they appear identical, they are in reality distinct. the first is bad food, food which makes people ill. this is the most serious of the three and the solutions are good practice, hygiene, and, for when things go wrong, traceability. you must know the entire route from farm to table and be able to identify where and how the problem happened. the second is fake food. food which does not make people ill but is not what it says. this is basically a matter of due diligence and contract law. in fact, commercial interests police this pretty well most of the time. the third is the consumer’s right to know what they are buying. linked to this is nutritional science, which has to be based on science that does not date: for example, fat and sugar in the diet, which may be about to undergo a revolution as a result of our better understanding of the role of insulin in the body. we must not saddle industry and consumers with requirements which are just about to be proved wrong. any regime must properly and sensibly meet the needs of all three without confusing them either in law or in the public mind. unfortunately, as a result of the eu’s usual lack of clear thinking, they are at the moment horribly muddled.
mr president, i have enjoyed this debate here this evening. i think it is a very good debate because there is little doubt that the horsemeat events and the scandal of 2013 did rock consumer confidence and confidence in the processing industry. consumers felt rightly cheated, and the honest meat producers were totally undermined. i remember at that time going to visit the local butcher’s shop and what they were experiencing at that time was an increase of over 20% in people going from supermarkets to the local butcher’s shop where they actually felt they were getting what they were promised. now i have to say to people: if you believe the advertisements of the supermarkets, that you can get four hamburgers for a pound, do not be surprised if what you were promised is not actually there. so, you know, there is also another aspect to this. we should not allow the large supermarkets to tell us these things or to browbeat those in the processing industry to provide them with the loss leaders that force people to do these sorts of things. now the horsemeat scandal had nothing to do with that. that was pure corruption. people out to destroy the industry. people changing meat on computers. the meat never moved! it was done on computers. it was a ridiculous situation that never, ever should be allowed to occur again. but let us have common sense and let us try and get a system that is not overly costly but will work.
mr president, the eu framework directive on waste, like so many outpourings of bureaucracy from these institutions, uses a one-cap-fits-all approach to the problem of waste disposal, despite the ways that different member states have traditionally approached this subject. i am often asked both by constituents and journalists what impact the eu really has on my country, and i can think of no better example of the eu’s inflexibility than by highlighting the development of a new incinerator in worcestershire in response to this directive. in these worrying times of austerity and public service cuts, i am appalled that council tax payers where i live and work in worcestershire and herefordshire have been saddled with a project lifetime cost to the tune of gbp 1.6 billion. there can be no doubt that this incinerator will become an enormous financial burden to my constituents.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, like others, my group really regrets this development within the ilo where we are seeing a move to roll back an agreement that stood for many years, and jurisprudence that stands; it almost beggars belief that this is actually going on in the 21st century. the conventions, particularly nos 87 and 98, are, as people have said, about the balance of power within the workplace and they represent hard fought-for rights. that struggle, as we know, is still going on in some of our member states, but certainly in many countries throughout the world, in sectors such as mining, brick-making and textiles. so any rollback of the definition of these rights that people have has profound implications for those who care about human rights, about decent work and about fair competition. so i think that the employers’ group needs to seriously consider what message it is sending elsewhere in the world through this action. for the european union, the ilo core conventions are part of gsp+, increasingly part of our trade agreements and therefore, for us, they represent a whole set of values and a way of working. we want to end exploitation, we want an end to unfair competition, undercutting through labour standards. so we have to support the right of organised labour and that includes the right to withdraw labour without being sacked, black-listed, beaten up or even worse, in many countries of the world. so the ilo has a crucial role to play here and that social partnership has a crucial role to demonstrate the sort of standards, the sort of progress that can be made through negotiation and, where necessary, the right to strike. so i really hope the eu employers are recognising they should be leading here, in demonstrating what good standards are. i also hope that our member state governments are going to support the continuing recognition of this fundamental right, both within the union and outside it.
madam president, the right to strike is, of course, an important part of industrial relations and the last resort in defence of an individual. however, it must not be abused. it is hard enough getting trade unions to play fair in the uk. they are giving financial support to groups who blockade political offices, and stopping elected representatives from speaking to voters and appearing in public to discuss local and national issues. of course, the last time the eu was involved in strikes, it was over the british jobs for british workers, the posted workers directive being brought into light for allowing companies to hire workers that undercut the wages of the country they were posted to. so i would be very wary of sticking your noses in again to what is already a very sensitive subject in the uk. to be discussing here and calling for the unelected eu commission to potentially meddle with the rights and the freedoms that it has taken centuries in the uk to develop is not something the british people voted for. laws should be decided by our elected and accountable national governments, not imposed from bureaucrats from brussels and strasbourg.
madam president, i welcome the efforts of colleagues who have secured the debate today. when the ilo is in crisis, it shows multilateralism is in crisis and widespread concerns over ttip show that eu citizens do not want a global economy without fair social rules. global free trade without effective labour rights, including the right to strike, effectively means more downward pressure on wages and unsustainable development for the many. but the commission also has a special responsibility to ensure that the ilo functions properly. the commission has outsourced to the ilo the assessment of whether a country qualifies for trade preferences with respect to labour rights. the commission chose to rely on the ilo’s committee on the application of standards. we therefore have a duty to guarantee that this committee can function properly and delivers effectively. the conflict within the ilo must be resolved urgently and it must be resolved, if necessary, by the icj.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, what we are debating here is the european youth initiative, and we have calls for the eu to do this, that and the other to end the massive problems facing young people in finding a job. i suppose this is the same eu that has failed those young people. you only have to look at the employment figures for the mediterranean eurozone members to realise that the eu and its initiatives have led to millions of young people being unable to find work, with greece being the prime example with a 50% youth unemployment rate. we have seen billions of taxpayers’ money thrown at these countries and none of it has helped. how about northern europe? well, of course, the elephant in the room there is immigration. while we have to compete with an open door to 450 million people to settle claim benefits and, crucially for this debate, compete for the same jobs, it will always be hard for young people to find work. at the last european committee meeting we were talking about new legislation on eures, which is a website that hit the headlines in the uk a few years ago for advertising 800 000 uk jobs across europe. that was nearly 50% of all the jobs listed. the new rules obviously will expand the number of uk jobs listed and advertised, but more importantly, the eu wants to include work experience and apprenticeship places advertised across europe as well. how on earth are young british workers and those fresh-faced out of education, with little experience or skills, meant to find a job? the eu, whatever it does, makes things worse. i just hope that it will one day listen to the voters who say they want no more meddling and waste, and no more eu bureaucracy. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am going to go back to what i said about the elephant in the room. the elephant in the room is immigration. i am also going to go back again to what i said about the free movement of people and the immense pressure it puts on young people in our country, the uk, trying to compete for jobs. also, other eu legislation and eu directives have failed. what makes you think this one is going to work? i do not.
mr president, commissioner, people tend to look at the youth unemployment crisis as a southern european problem, but if you look at the figures you will see it is a problem in all parts of the eu, including in my country – the uk – where over 760 000 young people are still desperately looking for work. if we are serious about tackling the terrible plight of these young people, we need to be much more ambitious, and whilst i applaud bringing forward money under the youth employment initiative, i cannot help but think this is a mere drop in the ocean, a short-term boost without any long-term gain. labour meps believe we need to see ambitious plans, in particular for the youth guarantee scheme, which will boost and re-energise those young people who feel abandoned in the current job market. it is a shame the current uk government has shown no interest in implementing the youth guarantee. however, commissioner, i am sure you will be pleased to hear that my party – the labour party – is committed to a real jobs guarantee in the uk to get our youth unemployed into work.
mr president, the word ʽapprenticeʼ comes from the latin ‘to understand’, but i do not understand why the government of my country has allowed the number of apprenticeships in my own east of england constituency to fall by 6 000 in the last year, how four in ten firms that the government says are providing apprenticeships do not even realise they are doing so, and how almost all the previous growth in what our government calls ‘apprenticeships’ are people over 40, with 2 000 people over 60. ‘the apprentice’ has to mean more than the name of a tv show. british companies in the cbi this month found that the low level of skills is the greatest threat to uk competitiveness. in britain, youth unemployment is rising again, with the uk behind both france and germany and below the european average for young people not in employment, education or training. i am proud to have worked to get european youth jobs guarantee money for thurrock in my constituency, yet, once again, the british government’s delay in agreeing the programme means that while parliament today is deciding to spend 30 times more on this fund, britain has yet to get anything. by simply rebranding what it means to be an apprentice, the government of my own country is simply branding itself as untrustworthy. have i made myself understood?
mr president, i have watched with interest this debate, and i see a lot of the members of the british labour party here absolutely loving it – with big beaming smiles on their faces. and why wouldn’t they have? because they can see, all through, infecting this room, the same thought process of ‘the answer to everything is big state, more taxes, more interference’. the same kind of thing that they ruined the uk with, they can now see the eu doing across the whole area – with every speech, a state growing larger and larger, and no real answers. well, here is an answer: youth unemployment. it is a serious issue. what we need to be doing is to make sure we have sensible, controlled immigration into countries so that people can get a foot on the employment ladder. we also need to make sure that we do not constantly spend billions of pounds or euros on saddling future generations with debt that they will never pay off, just because people like the idea of the state controlling everything. it is time to throw away the ideas of the past.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, last year was the most successful year ever for employee ownership in the united kingdom – a year which saw more people at work in the uk than ever before, and a year which saw 83% of new jobs being quality, full-time and permanent. employee-owned businesses have played a leading role in delivering the uk’s economic recovery. 2014 saw the number of employee-owned businesses rise by some 9%. some 30% of employees in the uk hold shares in their company. sadly, in many other european countries, ownership has actually declined. in the uk, our flagship is the john lewis partnership with some 82 000 employees or partners. companies range from the very small to the very large and represent a wide range of sectors. overall, they contribute some gbp 30 billion to the uk economy. in my own region, we have employee-owned companies ranging from a veterinary practice in rural herefordshire to a world-leading manufacturer of machinery protection systems in kidderminster, from the largest independent chartered insurance brokers based in birmingham, to a family-owned food distributor in willenhall that has been trading for nearly 100 years. the thing they have in common as employee-owned businesses is higher productivity, greater innovation and better profitability. employee owners also think and act for the long term, sometimes in marked contrast to the short-termism that can prevail. i want to pay tribute to the employee ownership association which champions this business model so effectively. so what is the eu’s role in this? as always, it is to create the environment where businesses can thrive and grow, by addressing skills shortages and by removing barriers, but above all by reducing administrative burdens on business, especially micros, and making it easier for businesses to compete in the global market place.
mr president, i support and agree that the employee financial participation schemes have the potential to benefit both companies and their employees, not only by offering direct financial benefits to workers, but also because, when done right, such schemes can actually foster ownership and participation of employees in their companies – a concept which, as a labour mep, i am very supportive of. i am glad to see that, through this file, the uk government is finally making an attempt to promote responsible capitalism, an issue on which my party has been leading the political debate. however, my first concern will always be protecting the workers. i believe it is important that we do not run ahead of ourselves and that strong safeguards are put in place that deal with possible risks linked to these schemes. my question to the commissioner is: what actions will be taken to inform and educate trade unions or other relevant organisations about these schemes, in order to empower them and to advise employees of the possible risks?
madam president, i welcome this measure very much and i welcome the support given by our commissioner on this issue. now make no mistake, this is a road safety measure. it is about deterrence and it is about good governance; it is not about burdensome or unfair regulation. all the offences considered are serious offences. in particular, speed we know is a primary factor in up to a third – if not more – of fatal collisions in the eu, and is an aggravating factor in most other collisions. so this is something that we really need to get a grip on. in my country, i know that this has not been universally welcomed and in many cases we have been urged to try to stay out of this. i am calling on the government today to change its view and to try and implement this more quickly than it has said it can. just on the figures, there are some very extreme examples both ways of how this has worked out. on a london ring road, people going twice the speed limit in foreign-registered vehicles are not being caught; similarly if you look at the french figures, 500 000 people in uk-registered cars are getting away with speeding offences every single year. so this is something which works both ways. it works for the benefit of all across the eu and it also underlines the need to do more on road safety in general in order to meet our road safety targets, which we are going to be at a push to meet by 2020 – in particular, making sure that conditionality on road safety is a point on all major transport infrastructure projects in line with the trans-european network guidelines. eu funding should not go towards projects on urban mobility or on transport unless road safety is absolutely a top priority. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is a question that does get looked at in great detail in my country, and i am sure in others, to make sure that technically, when infrastructure and road measures are put into effect, the issues around left-hand/right-hand driving are taken properly into account and also, in particular, that drivers are warned effectively at border crossings. so that goes both ways, both in terms of the uk and on the continent. it is an interesting point and it is something that all of us involved in transport work and road safety are very mindful of.
madam president, this piece of legislation exemplifies the flawed realities of the eu by creating overlapping legislation on something that just does not work. years after the implementation of the prüm decision, the majority of member states are still not able to exchange any of the three types of data deemed necessary for dealing with cross-border information exchange. this demonstrates that this legislation simply is not plausible. uk police need the ammunition to be able to track and enforce drivers who ignore the law on our highways, but it is our own uk border control that needs to store data on the vehicle registration on entry, with the driver’s appropriate legal licence, not the eu’s. at least this way, anyone who leaves the uk can be stopped at our own border control and dealt with appropriately. the need for eu expenditure to standardise cross-border technologies to implement this legislation is beyond belief. the language barriers between states that allow the system to operate effectively are unpractical and unsafe. the realities of this report pose more problems than solutions. robert goodwill, the british road minister, has stated that cross-border information exchanges on penalty points are inappropriate. it will be interesting to see if his party’s meps will agree that this is a matter better dealt with by individual member states. it is certainly only the ukip meps who wish to protect the uk interest, not like some other uk meps quoting mixed messages. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, there should certainly be a system in place, but it should be from within our own remit, not the eu’s.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the drc is a classic example for western politicians of how it is unacceptable to use african nations as pawns on a diplomatic chessboard. today’s problems in the drc are a direct consequence of her abandonment after the cold war on the back of belgian king leopold ii’s earlier use of this beautiful mineral-rich country as his personal fiefdom. as we all wish for a stable future here, the african-led un force must now, more than ever before, face up to questions over their past conduct. accordingly, i question whether a man facing over 121 allegations of breaches of human rights, general bruno mandevu, should still be a senior officer in a congolese un-joint military operation against the fdlr. can someone under such scrutiny really be allowed to remain in a position of authority as we endeavour to enter a fresh chapter of hope in this troubled region?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, if the international community has not the political will to address the root causes of the conflict in palestine – namely the occupation of palestine, the blockade of gaza, israel’s ongoing violation of international and humanitarian law – if, indeed, the collective political will is not there to resolve this mess, then, at the very least, we should stop taking it out on the most vulnerable people in gaza. for months in this chamber i have heard mep after mep defending human rights and international law. fine words, yet some meps act as spectators too, or worse, defenders of unacceptable breaches of such international and humanitarian law. ninety-six thousand palestinian homes were destroyed or damaged during the last onslaught on gaza. usd 720 million of assistance is needed. so far unrwa has received 135 million, leaving a shortfall of usd 585 million . what happened to the usd 5.4 billion that was pledged in cairo? in the overpopulated, open prison of gaza, people are sleeping among the rubble. some children are dying of hypothermia as a result of inadequate winter shelter. there is one indisputable fact: when palestinians are silent they are forgotten by many, but thankfully not by unrwa, whose 12 500 staff work tirelessly on all our behalf. so let us give them the funding that they need to help the palestinian refugees.
mr president, unrwa has called on the eu to make an extraordinary contribution and my group says we should, to an organisation which is itself extraordinary. i share the concern of some of those in this chamber that we are simply paying the price of the gaza conflict, but with 8 000 families still waiting for the first instalment to repair their damaged homes it is they who have paid most of all. with 90% of palestinian refugees in gaza and in syria reliant on unrwa for their survival, there is an overwhelming humanitarian imperative for us to help. i heard only yesterday that the unwra girls’ school in ramallah is concerned for their future. and yes, of course we have to deal with the root causes, but let us accept that our own failure in being able to help do so means that we have an obligation to help. since 2013, european commission aid to unrwa has already reduced from eur 190 million to eur 120 million. today unrwa has the highest deficit since it was first established in 1949. let us make an extraordinary contribution to that extraordinary organisation.
in writing. – i have seen unrwa’s irreplaceable role in providing public services to millions of palestinian refugees, including during many trips to gaza. the fact is we need unrwa now more than ever. there is a power vacuum in gaza which could backfire if the humanitarian situation further deteriorates, following israel’s deadly raids. unrwa, we often forget, is also in charge of syria’s 400 000 palestinian refugees – protecting them in homs, hama, south damascus in yarmouk camp, despite syria’s almost continuous starving siege since 2012. we must also urge jordan to let them in from syria and not only elderly, children and women – or worse, deport them back to syria as seen last year. unrwa also has to deal with 50 000 palestinian refugees fleeing syria to lebanon, on top of 300 000 already. we europeans already pay 57% of unrwa funding but it is israel who should be paying for the education of palestine’s refugees, their healthcare and their housing, not europe. unrwa has a usd 80 million deficit in 2015 and needs an extra usd 15 million from the eu to cover late 2015: i hope the council and parliament will set this as a top priority.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, yesterday i listened to the chair of the international affairs committee of the russian duma, alexei pushkov, explaining the need for a rapid peace solution for ukraine. unfortunately, his government is doing everything possible to prevent peace. instead it is choosing to continue with its contemptible approach of inventing a false narrative with which to justify military aggression against ukraine. russia is providing heavy military equipment, financial assistance and combat troops to the so-called separatists, sparking a conflict in which over 5 000 people have now lost their lives – 263 civilians alone in the last six days and 1.5 million people displaced. as we approach tomorrow’s minsk deadline for a renewed attempt at a ceasefire, rebel troops are surrounding the important railway hub of debaltseve and i have just heard of further criminal attacks today on civilian areas by the rebels in kramatorsk in which at least seven civilians were killed. so sadly, even if a ceasefire can be agreed tomorrow – and i hope that i am wrong in what i am about to say – it is unlikely in my view to end the conflict. as recently noted by the british foreign secretary, putin is behaving like a 1930s tyrant and such agreements are merely part of a dissembling approach to gradually legitimise territorial gains before embarking on another round of attacks. ukraine is not an isolated area of foreign policy for putin, but part of his wider dream to reconstitute a crony capitalist, authoritarian greater russia and to challenge the post-cold war settlement and legal order. challenging nato and the western alliance is therefore part of his mission. maintaining unity on eu sanctions against russia is of importance and excluding russia from the swift system could be the next step. militarily, we must not allow russian intimidation to prevent so-minded eu states from supplying the ukrainian armed forces the means to defend themselves and to deter russia’s ability to steal more territory from ukraine. sadly, in my view, the eu strategic partnership with putin’s russia, for now, is over.
blue-card question. – sir, you said in your remarks that you wanted to see international law upheld. in that case, in your opinion, should russia have a judge on the european court for human rights?
mr president, tomorrow night’s summit provides a moment of great danger, but perhaps a unique moment of hope too that the repeated frustrations can be overcome and peace can succeed. those of us in this chamber must avoid the temptation simply to ramp up the anti-russia rhetoric. if two eu leaders are prepared to fly to moscow to avert what one of them called the prospect of total war in europe, we have no less a duty to contribute to all, and any, hopes of a political solution. but if the talks fail tomorrow, we must not fail too. talk of unwillingness to roll forward european sanctions can only undermine the strength of european unity to be able to create a change of attitude in moscow. indeed, the further list of names due to be published on monday should appear because the progress we need to see can only be actual progress on the ground. last night, mr pushkov from the duma told our parliament’s committee that russia wanted a kosovo solution for ukraine – this from a country that opposed it for kosovo itself – and he said russia had no responsibility for insurgents who have crossed from its borders when european countries have precisely taken responsibility for foreign fighters in a different sphere who have crossed from ours. russia has to be willing to change course for peace. we have to show them we remain open for them to do so.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, since the signing of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons a lot of work has been done by signatories to reduce, and ultimately abolish, nuclear arsenals, including the uk. the end of the cold war did not bring relief from the threat posed by nuclear weapons and, in many ways, with their potential proliferation to more states and even terrorist organisations, the situation is worse. recent events in eastern europe and the middle east have shown just how quickly security can break down. i have no doubt there are some fanatics within this chamber who would wish to see further centralisation of member states’ security and defence. but in the perilous world we live in it is vital for british national security that the levels of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation policy remain firmly in member state hands.
mr president, i am working very closely with civil society and would therefore ask the relevant authorities to take into account the growing concern of these organisations and of the non-nuclear arms states regarding the threats to human life and to the planet posed by the very existence of nuclear weapons. along with political representatives from more than 160 countries, i attended the vienna conference hosted by the austrian government to discuss the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. this was preceded by an equally significant civil society forum. the concerns of these organisations and the people they represent must be taken into account regarding non-proliferation and an eventual ban.
mr president, when we think of africa, the caribbean and the pacific, or the acp as we have been calling it here, we think, of course, of the sun. it has become increasingly apparent that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which supposedly started as a force of good, has become nothing more than a front for lavish holidays and massaging egos. who funds these trips? well, of course, it is us, the taxpayers. in 2011 a short excursion to sunny togo by a group of 33 meps cost the beleaguered taxpayer, at a conservative estimate, gbp 435 000. in 2014, a 34-strong acp-eu delegation went to the beautiful island of tenerife and accumulated a bill of close to gbp 600 000, all courtesy of the humble taxpayer. the most laughable case of these fact-finding missions was when five delegation members went out to the tropical island of fiji in 2012. it was supposedly a mission to learn about the political crisis in that small island nation. reading the four-page report they compiled, it becomes apparent that it was nothing more than a holiday, with a conclusion that the most humble politics student could have googled. at a time when families can barely put food on the table, the political elite of the eu are taking lavish holidays on their behalf. it is time for britain to leave the eu and start putting food back on the tables of the british people. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the only thing i am against is you lot taking holidays at my expense, and the taxpayer’s expenses. you do not need to go on a fact-finding mission to fiji or the tenerife, quite frankly. it is taking the mick. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – … but not to take lavish holidays at the expense of the taxpayer. full stop!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am delighted to hear what the commissioner has to say about the implementation of this much-needed action plan to tackle this particularly horrific form of violence against women and girls that is fgm – female genital mutilation. we are all quoting the projected figures on victims in the eu and worldwide, but in fact we are not able to say exactly how many girls are cut every year because there is a lack of reliable data. what we can say is that vulnerable girls, often from already isolated sections of our communities, are at the most risk. what effort is there now to collect this data and how will we tackle this practice if we do not know the scale of the issue? the commission’s recent communication commits to helping member states raise awareness and provide training for relevant professionals, and that is very welcome. in the uk the first and only case of prosecution of a dr dharmasena for not attending to fgm shows knowledge amongst key professionals remains woefully low. he says he never received any training on fgm in either his undergraduate or postgraduate studies and was not aware of any hospital policy on fgm. we have to provide training for teachers, doctors, policemen and other key professionals now, so that they can recognise the warning signs and will know what to do when presented with the evidence. training takes only a few days but it could help prevent vulnerable girls from being forced to live with the consequences of fgm for the rest of their lives. awareness-raising among professionals is a great start but of course that is not enough to end this brutal practice. we must all work closely with the communities, to start to change attitudes and to talk about this issue, supporting the brave women who refuse to allow their daughters to be cut and arming the girls with information so that they can recognise the warning signs and resist.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, there are tens of thousands of cases of fgm in the uk and not one person has been brought to justice. it is the failed policy of multiculturalism which has given rise to this abomination across the uk. in the uk elected officials and representatives have turned a blind eye to this practice in order not to offend minority communities and avoid being labelled as racist. lack of integration within these communities and a political class too afraid to speak out are allowing this practice to continue. it is these people who have let down the thousands of young girls and women butchered in the name of a backward cultural custom. this evil practice must end. politicians and the justice system must have the courage to act. protecting children has to take priority over zealous and outdated political correctness. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card question. – i agree with you that more must be done to tackle fgm, including in europe. but why then did your party, ukip, refuse to vote in favour of the european parliamentary resolution of december 2013 which strongly condemns fgm? ukip i think would do better to put their anti-eu ideology aside and realise that working together sometimes is the best way to change the world for the better.
blue-card answer. – well actually i was not here when that was tabled; i am a new mep. but the liberal democrats have a great big load of guilt to take on their shoulders with their failed policy on multiculturalism and political correctness. so i think actually that that question from you is an absolute disgrace.
madam president, i have been moved by my encounters with the european campaigners on female genital mutilation (fgm) who have shown that by working together, including and supporting women in communities affected by the practice, we can begin to effect change. campaigns have a lifespan but issues do not go away, so we must continue to speak out, together with civil society, in order to raise public awareness and move closer to the next goal – zero tolerance. a powerful way to do this is to encourage and support affected communities in bearing witness to their experiences. through the telling of the stories of those who have experienced fgm we break the taboo and stigma which surround the ritual. through sharing the testimonies of others who have been involved, such as health professionals, lawyers and community workers – men as well as women – we show how this is an issue that must be tackled at home as well as abroad. zero tolerance regarding fgm must come about through more tolerance of open discussion of the practice, changing the language we use so that victims become right-holders whose rights we must uphold.
madam president, we all agree here that fgm is one of the most barbaric forms of exerting control over a woman’s sexuality and therefore over her whole life. the question today is really what we can do about it here in europe. i think that it is a marvellous thing that we are all gathered together talking about the way forward and it is time that we actually got on with it. prosecution rates are far too low. we need to share best practice; we need to improve the enforcement of the law. we must have successful prosecutions to show the success of our policy. catherine bearder talked a little bit about the uk and the latest attempts at a prosecution – in fact the first attempt at prosecution, and this is despite gbp 1.4 million being allocated by the prime minister a year ago to provide information through the nhs. a doctor has been effectively acquitted for not having been told about fgm, so it is vitally important that we get on with that information campaign.
madam president, i am speaking in this debate as someone who represents a city where there are communities where female genital mutilation (fgm) takes place. it is absolutely appalling and barbaric and i totally agree with everything everyone has said about female genital mutilation, but just going out there and trying to enforce law does not work. there have been no successful prosecutions in the uk despite the fact that fgm has been a crime for some years. france has been a bit more successful. however, i think that what we need to do is really encourage the communities themselves to understand that this practice is wrong, and to understand those women, and they are mainly young women, who are willing to come forward. i think a lot more support is needed, and if the eu and the commission come up with some plan for finance and support for those communities that would be really helpful.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, of course we must do everything we possibly can to protect children, and i totally agree with the rapporteur that we should support her report and support the accession of these eight countries to the hague convention. however, i would just sound a note of warning because it is not quite as straightforward as that. we have some concerns over these eight countries, and the eu itself does not have any means of assessing how well these countries may do in the future. some eu member states have expressed concerns about that, including, i have to say, the uk. we have a real duty to look at this and to answer some of the questions raised, and we should continue to monitor what goes on. children who have been abducted in cross-border situations should, of course, be given a higher standard of care and we must make sure that happens. we must also make sure that, wherever possible, they are reunited with their families. it is not acceptable for children who have already suffered a lot to go through further traumas and suffering, which could be avoided, when they are returned to their habitual country of residence. there is a lot here that needs to be thought about in terms of protecting children. that is why we must make sure that some of these eight countries, about which we have concerns, are monitored, that we keep in touch with what is going on, that reports are submitted to parliament, and that the commission really does follow up what is going on. it is very important we get this one right. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think this is a very complicated issue and that is just one part of it. what we must do, always, is make sure that the interests of the child come first.
madam president, protecting the rights and interests of children must be our priority and the eu has already done a lot, but one thing has just got a lot worse. this is the european hotline for missing children, 116 000, launched by the commission in 2007, but this january the funding was cut. the 116 000 number is an essential tool in tackling international child abduction, providing a vital source of practical and emotional support for families and vulnerable children. it allows organisations to work together across country borders to locate missing children and reconnect them with their place of safety. in the uk alone, the charity missing people received over 50 000 calls, texts and emails last year. cutting the funding for this service means calls will go unanswered and missing children will be deprived of that vital lifeline. i urge the commission and member states to restore this funding for the missing children hotline so it can continue.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this is a summit to discuss threats – threats from radicals, threats to our economies, threats on our borders – and all these threats require strong leadership. on the terror threat, most of thursday’s council will, rightly, be devoted to the issue of law enforcement and aspects of our response, internal security and the passenger name record (pnr) scheme. i would like to thank the presidency for the kind comments on the kirkhope report. however, i have to say that it is shameful that the other group leaders want to undermine the report, as mr kirkhope is seeking to get the right balance between our civil liberties and our security. let us also make sure that we do not ignore the other strand of this problem, namely – as, mr timmermans said – the drivers of radicalisation. why are people from all types of background, some of them highly educated, killing other, innocent, people and falsely invoking the name of god? why? it is a question i have been asked a lot recently, but there is no one path to radicalisation. there are various drivers, such as a search for identity among some second-generation and third-generation muslims, the radicalisation of violent criminals in prison, giving them another violent cause to fight for, or the fact of radicals from other countries being given a platform for their extreme views in some of our communities. there are many paths. there is no easy answer. there is no silver bullet, metaphorically or literally, and most of the answers are actually to be found at local rather than eu level. however, at eu level we should not be afraid to discuss these issues in an open and frank manner, exchanging best practice and seeing what works best and what does not work in our countries. if terrorism is a threat in our midst, there is also a serious threat on our doorstep. on ukraine, the ecr group shares the concerns about the humanitarian catastrophe unfolding right under our noses but, frankly, only vladimir putin can put an end to this crisis. he must literally get his tanks off ukraine’s lawn. today’s meeting in minsk is perhaps the last chance for a deal. however, we must be clear. we must seek a peaceful and political solution, but if putin’s aggression continues then we must deploy every economic weapon available to us. in 21st century russia, money talks. that is why it is unfortunate that in the eu we are not in a stronger position. there are no shortcuts to economic growth, no easy fixes for the eurozone and no alternatives to much-needed reform. anyone who tells you there is a simple solution is simply not telling the truth. frankly, the european council needs to be honest about what economic and monetary union entails. if you want to keep the weaker economies in the eurozone, taxpayers in richer eurozone countries – germany, the netherlands, finland – will have to pay for fiscal transfers to poorer eurozone countries, maybe forever. but those countries benefiting from the transfers must also understand the old saying that ‘he who pays the piper gets to call the tune’. as politicians, we should be straight about this, and let people make up their own minds. the voters made up their minds in greece and they chose syriza. you will not be surprised to hear that i disagree with their platform, but the people of greece voted for it and we have to recognise that. however, the time for grandstanding on both sides is over. if greece wants to discuss its sovereign debt with creditors in a mild-mannered way, it should get a fair hearing, but if greece wants to splash the cash, it must understand that voters in the richer eurozone countries may want to show it the exit door. so this might be an informal council but the subjects being discussed could not be more serious – tackling terrorism, tackling putin and tackling the eurozone crisis. let us all hope that the leaders at the european council will make some headway and lead us to calmer waters. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr kamall, you spoke about the drivers of terrorism and radicalisation and you said that there were different means and methods by which young people become radicalised. can i put it to you that the main driver of radicalisation is actually saudi arabia? they are the people who are funding these terrorist organisations. would you agree with me that it was hypocritical and wrong for our own prime minister, david cameron, to attend the funeral of king abdullah who was little more than a cruel and wicked dictator?
blue-card answer. – could i just say that i am slightly surprised by that question because i thought you were going to blame the eu for the causes of terrorism, like you blame the eu for everything. actually, i have to say, you are absolutely right. saudi arabia is not the main driver but it is one of the factors we should look at. saudi arabia has been using its money unfortunately. when they built mosques in the uk, as a young child i used to think they were immensely beneficent but actually there is a pernicious intent behind what they do, and i think we have to be quite clear about that. we should be strong with the saudis, as we should be strong with all those who support terrorism by whatever means.
blue-card question. – danke, mein präsident, though i am not saxe-coburg-gotha, very nice though that might be. mr verhofstadt, you keep asking for a pan-european police state, or it seems to me that this is what you are asking for, ruled by a european – how shall we put it? – bureaucratic dictatorship, because this european union has no democratic merit at all. this house is not proposing legislation. you have no democratic control and you want a police state controlled by the european union. that does not seem like a good idea to me. is that what you want?
blue-card question. – you speak, and you speculated, about why people within our societies turn against us and turn to terrorism. would you not agree that at least part of the problem is the very language that you yourself unfortunately end up using when you talk about the muslim community, the jewish community, the separate communities. why not integration rather than separation? political correctness allows these separate groups within society. why not talk about a british person who happens to be a muslim, for example, rather than the other way round? (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, having listened to the debate this morning, it is clear to me that there are very few people in this room who understand, or dare to admit, the significance of the moment that we have reached. in the wake of the historic greek elections, there are big questions, not just about the future of the euro area but actually about the future of the european project itself. there is a great game of poker taking place for the future of this currency. on the one hand we have the eu institutions. now however much my warnings over the years may have upset people, when i said that the eu would crush and kill and destroy nation-state democracy, i think the behaviour by the key players since the greek elections justifies everything i have said. we heard the german finance minister, mr schäuble, saying that elections change nothing and mr juncker – who is not here today, which is disappointing – ought to be hanging his head in shame or perhaps he is busy getting his euros out of greece, i have no idea. mr juncker said that there can be no democratic choice against the european treaties. so there it is, folks. it does not matter how you vote. it does not matter what government you elect, these treaties are designed to be there forever and agreements by previous governments bind parliaments that come for years and years afterwards. what it means is that the european project is, in fact, the very antithesis of the democratic principle. i think these comments, frankly, are disgusting. i guess we are all asking the question of who will blink first. on the other side, we have got this new, radical left-wing greek government. i was not quite sure what to make of them until i saw last week, ambling up downing street, yanis varoufakis. there he was with his leather bomber jacket and his blue shirt hanging out of the front of his trousers, with his shaven head, hands in pockets, looking a bit like an off-duty nightclub bouncer. i am not normally a fan of marxist academics, but having seen this fellow, i suspect that perhaps he is the real deal. at least, i hope he is, because what is at stake – as is clear from the comments we have had from germany and from people in this chamber this morning – what is at stake is clear: do the greek elections mean anything? yes or no? i hope the greeks stand firm, whatever the consequences. if they do, the free world will applaud them. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – what i was saying was that there is an atmosphere of denial. in the wonderful latvian presidency speech this morning, at no point was the word ‘greece’ mentioned. mr timmermans very briefly touched on greece and many of the speakers ignored the subject. what i am saying is: people are in denial; we are at a very big, important, historic juncture. and what is at stake is: do general elections in our member states count for anything or not? those arguments and those debates are far more important than whether i have written any parliamentary reports or gone native and become part of the system, because i most certainly have not. (applause)
blue-card question. – mr papadimoulis, congratulations to your party and to the greek people on expressing the democratic voice. in the uk we got out of the exchange rate mechanism in the 1990s, and our economy recovered. in argentina there was great hardship with the dollar peg: they got out of it, their economy recovered. do you agree that greece’s inability to devalue its currency leads, in part, to difficulty with the recovery of the greek manufacturing and tourism industries; and are there any circumstances at all in which you would support a greek exit from the euro to solve those problems?
mr president, as the final speaker listed, and having listened to the contributions, i want to say two things. firstly, we need to learn the lessons of what has happened with regard to the anti-terrorism part of what will be discussed at the informal council; and secondly we must stay united. why should we be united on the anti-terrorism fight? first of all, as many people have said, while we are dealing with the passenger name record (pnr) scheme, there is almost a disproportionate concentration on it. parliament has moved swiftly on this, so we have shown our commitment today, and within a few minutes we will vote on pnr. yes, it is controversial because the last terrorist outrage, before what we saw on the streets of paris, was in 2005 in london, and we have since produced the data retention directive, and we have to learn the lessons of what happened. we need legislation which is worthy of our citizens and worthy of this house, and which will stand the tests of time and the european court of justice. we have to learn the lessons. so parliament will move swiftly, but that means that we must be united, and that the council must do its job. it means that europol and the europol regulation must happen. it means that the data regulation package, which underpins so much of what will happen with pnr, must also happen. you do your job, council, and the commission – so eloquently represented by mr timmermans – will be there to help us through this, through the informal council and through our job. that means being unified because, at the end of the day, terrorism is an attack on our security and an attack on life, but if we are united we will have helped our citizens through a profoundly challenging moment in our history. we cannot do that if we do not see the institutions working together. what will that mean in terms of learning other lessons? it means that the causes of radicalisation, and all the other tools in our toolbox aside from pnr, must be our business, as we learn the lessons and cooperate. if our citizens see this, they will see first that we have learned the lessons and then that we can remain united. we will still have differences – this is not a perfect resolution that we will be voting on in a few minutes’ time – but we will have done a service to our citizens in the end.
mr president, i have a point of order which is this: may i congratulate the parliament on the fact that yesterday there were no votes? in consequence, the peoples of the nation states of europe had one whole day without yet more job-destroying regulation and rules from this place imposing austerity. (applause)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal as its implementation will provide for greater legal certainty and clarity. the proposal relates primarily to the codification of legal texts. this is important because if you do not codify texts, the several amended former versions of the texts remain. codification is, in a nutshell, a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed, as it is the complex nature of such texts that frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges, often at the taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. — if these matters were coming before the european parliament for the first time, we would be voting against because these matters should be within the competence of the member states. therefore to vote against is consistent with our position.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the report on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland, seeing that this concerns a purely technical measure aiming at the consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments, and the proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified.
in writing. — i voted for this as it is consolidation of legislation in line with recent developments.
in writing. — i supported the report as it is simply aiming at consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this proposal to codify the safeguard measures provided for in the eu/iceland agreement as they are based on the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. — in the agreement between the eec and iceland, provision was made for safeguard measures, designed to mitigate the effects of excessive imports or the possibility of dumping. it is in line with commission commitments to codification in order to ensure clarity of the law.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because it supports cooperation between the eec and iceland, particularly regarding attempts to mitigate the effects of excessive imports and the possibility of dumping.
in writing. — ukipʼs position is that the uk should be in charge of all issues relating to the application of state aid within the context of our sovereign membership of the wto and other international agreements.
in writing. — if these matters were coming before the european parliament for the first time, we would be voting against because these matters should be within the competence of the member states. therefore to vote against is consistent with our position.
in writing. — i am aware the duda report in itself concerns a merely technical matter, but i wanted to grasp this opportunity to raise an issue of great concern, which is the fact that member states have not so far been able to agree on new eu powers to fight dumping. this means that up until this day we have dumping legislation that has not been revised since 1995 and does not take into account current-day social and environmental concerns. it also means we do not have new powers to fight unfair chinese exports, which are pushing eu companies out of the market by literally dumping cheap products on our markets. it is an issue that is of great concern to my country, and in particular to my region of the west midlands where ceramic companies are struggling because of dumped imports of ceramic table and kitchenware from china; and it is a bitter fact that the uk government has not been standing behind these companies in the debate on this at eu level.
in writing. — i voted for this as it is consolidation of legislation in line with recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this proposal to codify measures concerning anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters in light of the recommendation from the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. — the file brings together recent developments already in force. in particular, the commission, pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 and regulation (ec) no 597/2009 as well as this consolidating measure, may repeal/amend or adopt an implementing measure to bring the union into conformity with any report produced by the wto’s dispute settlement body.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because i support the wto in their aims to properly settle disputes regarding anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters.
in writing. — if these matters were coming before parliament for the first time, we would be voting against because these matters should be within the competence of the member states. therefore to vote against is consistent with our position.
in writing. — mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures, seeing that this concerns a purely technical matter aiming at the consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this as it is consolidation of legislation in line with recent developments.
in writing. — i supported the report as it is simply aiming at consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this proposal, which follows the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. — the file concerns measures which may be taken in relation to the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures. again, it is a codification of existing amendments, solely designed to make the law easier to understand. the amendments brought together simply try to ensure that excessively onerous burdens are not placed on exporting producers from non-eu countries on products which may be subject to both anti-subsidy/anti-dumping measures in addition to safeguard measures/tariff measures.
in writing. — i support free access to the union market so voted in favour of this report. i believe excessively onerous burdens should not be placed on exporting producers from countries outside of the eu on products which may be subject to anti-subsidy/anti-dumping measures in addition to safeguard measures/tariff measures. by consolidating the existing legislation, the commission can continue to use their powers to ensure no such burden exists.
in writing. — if these matters were coming before parliament for the first time, we would be voting against because these matters should be within the competence of the member states. therefore to vote against is consistent with our position.
in writing. — mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports, seeing that this concerns a purely technical matter aiming at the consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this as it is consolidation of legislation in line with recent developments.
in writing. — i supported the report, as it is simply aiming at consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this regulation on common rules for imports, which follow the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. — re-drafting to consolidate a number of changes since 2009 to regulation 260/2009, which it repeals. in particular, takes account of the other files in this group being voted on, especially of the use of safeguard measures, included in chapter v.
in writing. — i support having common rules for imports across the member states so strongly support this.
in writing. — ukipʼs position is that the uk should be in charge of all issues relating to application of rules relating to imports. we are therefore voting against.
in writing. — if these matters were coming before parliament for the first time, we would be voting against because these matters should be within the competence of the member states. therefore to vote against is consistent with our position.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports, seeing that it is a purely technical measure aiming at consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this as it is consolidation of legislation in line with recent developments.
in writing. — i supported the report as it is simply aiming at consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. — i voted for this regulation for common rules for exports, which take up the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. — the measures being consolidated include a possibility for the commission to require an export authorisation in the case where export may result in a shortage of essential products, or to undertake other appropriate measures to address the problem.
in writing. — i voted in favour of these rules because i believe the commission should ensure a proper authorisation of exports, or other appropriate measures, in cases where a shortage of essential products may occur.
mr president, one of the arguments that is often put in my country, as in others, about participation in the eu is that we need to be present at the top tables. but, as we see with international regulations of this kind, the top tables are no longer in europe. we are talking here about conventions on child abduction, but the same is true about internet regulation, about food standards and so on. the top tables are international; they are global. and what happens as a result of eu membership is that the european commission takes over representation from the member states. so whereas norway and switzerland and new zealand and other countries sit independently around those global tables we are represented by somebody else, along with 27 other member governments. in other words, we make a net loss of collective influence and the reason that we cannot see it is because we still fondly imagine that the whole world is focused in europe. well guys, take a look at what is happening in the world economy. this is not the centre anymore.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the accession of gabon to the hague convention, as this proposal will assist authorities in returning wrongfully removed children, and will help to address issues of conflict of laws (competence of courts). in real terms, it will provide a pragmatic solution where a child has been abducted and taken to another country without the consent of one of the parents. furthermore, the overarching principle of the proposal is that the welfare of the child – something that should always be paramount – should be the first and foremost consideration in child care proceedings. that is why it was necessary to support this proposal.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these statesʼ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ʽserious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family casesʼ. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of gabon, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of gabon to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure gabon is in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of gabon to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in the european parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report, as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect the rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it is yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between gabon and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — i welcome this report. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vitally important instrument. it has been ratified by all the eu member states. the convention introduces a system of cooperation between the contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. the accession of gabon to the convention means that children with links to the gabonese community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of gabon to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of gabon to the convention is to be welcomed. many eu citizens are of gabonese origin. children with links to the gabonese community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support gabon’s accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. international co-operation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to gabon is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that gabon will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
mr president, i have made my point about all of these hautala speeches, i do not need any more explanations of votes. it would have been nice to have done so without the interruption of a discourteous member of the french national front.
in writing. — ukip voted against the report, as the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states therefore no longer act on their own account. we believe that the uk should be able to act in its own right.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these statesʼ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ʽserious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family casesʼ. whilst i am confident that andorraʼs legal system is sufficiently robust, there is no substitute for exercising due diligence. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of andorra, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of andorra to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure andorra is in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in the european parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report, as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases, and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect the rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it is yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between andorra and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — the accession of andorra to the convention is to be welcomed. i fully support this, especially as many eu citizens are of andorran origin. children with links to the andorran community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of gabon to the convention is to be welcomed. many eu citizens are of andorran origin. children with links to the andorran community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support andorra's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international co-operation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to andorra is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that andorra will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
in writing. — ukip voted against the report, as the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states therefore no longer act on their own account. we believe that the uk should be able to act in its own right.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these statesʼ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ʽserious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family casesʼ. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of the seychelles, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of the seychelles to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure the seychelles are in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in the european parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report, as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect the rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it is yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between the seychelles and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — the accession of the seychelles to the convention is to be welcomed. i fully support this, especially as many eu citizens are of seychellois origin. children with links to the seychellois community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of seychelles to the convention is to be welcomed. many eu citizens are of seychellois origin. children with links to the seychellois community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support seychelles’ accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to the seychelles is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that the seychelles will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
in writing. — ukip voted against the report, as the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states therefore no longer act on their own account. we believe that the uk should be able to act in its own right.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these statesʼ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ʽserious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family casesʼ. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of russia, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of russia to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure russia is in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of russia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in the european parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report, as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect the rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it is yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between russia and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — the accession of the russian federation to the convention is to be welcomed. i fully support this, especially as the eu has close economic ties with russia. children with links to the russian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of the russian federation to the convention is to be welcomed. the eu has close economic ties with russia. children with links to the russian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support the russian federation’s accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to russia is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that russia will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
in writing. — ukip voted against the report, as the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field, as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states therefore no longer act on their own account. we believe that the uk should be able to act in its own right.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these statesʼ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ʽserious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family casesʼ. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of albania, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of albania to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure albania is in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of albania to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases, or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it has yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between albania and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — the accession of albania to the convention is to be welcomed. i fully support this, especially as many eu citizens are of albanian origin. children with links to the albanian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of the albania to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of albania to the convention is to be welcomed. many eu citizens are of albanian origin. children with links to the albanian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to albania is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that albania will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
in writing. — ukip voted against the report as the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states therefore no longer act on their own account. we believe that the uk should be able to act in its own right.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these statesʼ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ʽserious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family casesʼ. whilst i am confident that singaporeʼs legal system is sufficiently robust in this respect, there is no substitute for exercising due diligence. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of singapore, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of singapore to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure singapore is in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases, or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it has yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between singapore and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — the accession of singapore to the convention is to be welcomed. i fully support this, especially as the eu has close economic ties with singapore. children with links to the singaporean community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of the singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of singapore to the convention is to be welcomed. the eu has close economic ties with singapore. children with links to the singapore community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support singapore’s accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to singapore is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that singapore will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
in writing. — ukip voted against the report as the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states therefore no longer act on their own account. we believe that the uk should be able to act in its own right.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these states’ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ‘serious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family cases’. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of morocco, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of morocco to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure morocco is in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases, or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it has yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between morocco and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — the accession of morocco to the convention is to be welcomed. i fully support this, especially as many eu citizens are of moroccan origin. children with links to the moroccan community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of morocco to the convention is to be welcomed. many eu citizens are of moroccan origin. children with links to the moroccan community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support morocco’s accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to morocco is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that morocco will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
in writing. — ukip voted against the report as the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13. the member states therefore no longer act on their own account. we believe that the uk should be able to act in its own right.
in writing. — i cannot vote in favour: this is a field in which the eu should not have exclusive competence. under normal circumstances i would abstain. the assessment of these statesʼ abilities to fully comply with provisions is important for child safety. these countries will be trusted by us to a great extent. the commission has not undertaken this kind of assessment. the uk government believes there are ʽserious risks in returning children to a third country that does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family casesʼ. i therefore voted against as this measure has not been properly thought through.
in writing. — the 1980 hague convention provides the private international law framework for recovery of abducted children. its aim is to ensure that judicial and administrative cooperation is effectively applied to safeguard the prompt return of the child and the mutual enforcement of judgments regarding custody and access rights. the vote refers to the acceptance of armenia, which has joined the convention in recent years. this agreement will benefit children and families in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the hautala report because the hague convention of 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an essential instrument for protecting children belonging to parents from different states that exploit potential conflicts of competence between their national courts in order to secure custody of their child. i therefore call on all eu member states to formally accept the accession of armenia to the convention, seeing that this is a crucial step to ensure effective implementation and enhanced international cooperation to protect children who fall victim to international abduction. i do urge the commission to continuously monitor whether the necessary infrastructure is in place to ensure armenia is in a position to fully implement the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (the convention), which seeks to protect children from abduction across international boundaries, is to be welcomed. it is important that countries acceding to the convention can participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention. effective measures now need to be put into place to ensure the rights of the child and that cooperation is fully practicable.
in writing. — on behalf of the conservative meps in parliament and as conservative spokesman for legal affairs, i voted in favour of this report as the 1980 hague convention is an effective tool in the resolution of international child abduction cases and extending its application to more countries, as long as they fully comply with the obligations under the convention, would enhance the legal certainty for those involved in such disputes. however, i strongly support the assessments which many member states currently undertake in order to carefully assess any third country’s ability to implement the convention properly before accepting its accession. these assessments prevent any potential risks which may arise from returning children to a third country which does not respect rule of law or basic legal procedures in family law cases, or does not have a competent authority which could verify a child’s well-being. i therefore support calls for the commission to urgently produce such assessments for these countries, which it has yet to produce.
in writing. — in order for the convention to apply between armenia and the eu, the acceptance of all member states is required. i supported giving the acceptance, as the convention is an important international instrument, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return.
in writing. — the accession of armenia to the convention is to be welcomed. i fully support this, especially as many eu citizens are of armenian origin. children with links to the armenian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — it is important to get as many countries on board as possible. the accession will allow those countries acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction to participate in enhanced international cooperation with other signatories to the convention.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the accession of the armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of armenia to the convention is to be welcomed. many eu citizens are of armenian origin. children with links to the armenian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. — i support armenia’s accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation is vital in ensuring the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. — the accession to the hague convention on child abduction in principle is acceptable, and the extension of these international rules to armenia is to be welcomed. there remains a slight concern that armenia will need further assessment in order to confirm their full compliance with their obligations; however, this has been raised by the member states in the council. as the european parliament does not have a formal role in this process and is only being asked for consent and as the measure is positive in extending the reach of an international standard in difficult situations, i can support this vote.
in writing. — as a ukip mep, it is consistent for me to vote against, as the rejection would have serious consequences for the functioning of the european union!
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report, which concerns a largely technical measure to validate the mandate of the members of the european parliament at the beginning of the legislature.
in writing. — i voted for this report which repeats parliamentʼs request to the competent national authorities not only to notify it promptly of all the names of the elected candidates but also to forward the names of any substitutes, together with their ranking in accordance with the results of the vote.
in writing. — i voted for the verification of members’ credentials, confirming the results from the member states of the full elections held in may 2014.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report which verifies the credentials of the members who were elected in the 2014 european elections.
mr president, i voted against this motion, which i am delighted to say the uk government also opposes. i think the arguments we have heard in favour of it are fundamentally flawed: they boil down to the idea that since cars cross borders we must therefore have a common eu policy, which is the same logic we hear over and over again. this might – i am not sure – be construed as an argument for global government. but it certainly is not an argument for a narrow harmonisation of policies under this particular institutional structure with 28 of the 196 independent states and territories represented at the un. the myth is that if you do not have commission involvement you do not get cooperation. it is not true. we have had decades of judicial cooperation: the hague convention, extradition treaties recognising time spent in another country’s prison as part of a sentence, etc. it is perfectly possible for two countries if there is a pragmatic case for it, as we just heard suggested by comrade carthy a second ago. there is a perfectly good mechanism whereby two sovereign governments come together and reach a bilateral deal. it does not follow that we have to hand the whole thing to an unelected bureaucracy in brussels.
mr president, i was surprised that ukip and some conservatives have opposed this particular piece of legislation. it can only mean one thing: that in their own country they are in favour of foreign-registered cars, be they driven by citizens of other countries or british expats returning home, having immunity from prosecution when they commit an offence such as drunken driving or gross speeding. this is incomprehensible. why should ordinary resident citizens have to pay fines and those who by one means or another are driving a car registered in another country not be punished and not have to face the consequences of their offences? it is not, as mr hannan was claiming, an attempt to have common eu policies and regulations on all aspects of driving safety. it is about allowing each country to enforce the rules that exist in each country when they are broken by those resident in other countries. it is a good example, a sensible example, of how we can work together at european level to benefit our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information related to traffic offences. the implementation of this regulation is crucial, as it should mean that people who commit a road traffic offence in a jurisdiction where they are not resident can face the penalties for their actions. this is a particular issue in ireland, as a minority of drivers have used the border as a means of showing disregard for road safety laws on one side of it or the other. we also know that drivers from other eu countries have been basically immune to irish traffic laws. hopefully these problems can now be addressed. the priority must be to ensure the safety of all road users.
in writing. — this report relates to speeding offences; the idea is to be able to transfer licence points across member states. not all member states are the same; this could lead to unfair cases of people being banned from driving. block vote 1-2 is difficult: we are uncertain about amendment 1 because of data protection issues. but we are in favour of amendment 2 which offers a delay for the uk, denmark and ireland.
in writing. — like the vast majority of members of parliament, i stand fully behind the principle of cooperation toward tackling avoidable deaths and injuries on roads across europe caused by reckless or illegal driving. working together often works best, however it can only happen if the system of informative exchange does not become ineffective or bureaucratic. i am mindful that the recent ruling by the european court of justice has compelled the uk government to now opt-in to this directive. such coercion illustrates how the eu has degraded the capacity of member states to legislate for their own citizens. the uk department for transport tell us that many of their previous concerns around the directive have been tackled. this includes fears that vehicle owners, instead of drivers, will be wrongly targeted by the new powers, and concern that private data could be shared wrongly or incur severe cost for storage. these have not fully been addressed. i have heard from various constituents who have been subject to disproportionate penalties for offences in other member states. i would call on the uk government to provide reassurances that this directive will act in the best interests of motorists across the united kingdom.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the cross-border exchange of information on road-safety-related traffic offences. this will mean that drivers from all eu member states can be prosecuted for traffic infringements wherever in the eu they commit the offence. i believe that any measure that makes the roads safer for my constituents in wales is to be welcomed.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the sender report on the proposal for a directive on facilitating cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences because it is unacceptable that foreign-registered drivers who commit a traffic offence and put other people’s lives at risk when abroad can get away with this, simply because member states cannot trace them when they return home. i therefore find it deeply disappointing that uk meps on the right have voted against this resolution, signalling they are not concerned about holding to account foreign drivers who commit offences within the uk.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the report as i believe it is crucial to set up procedures for the exchange of information on road traffic offences. the offences included in the legislation are related to the main road risk factors: speeding, failing to use a seat-belt; using a mobile phone while driving; and drink-driving. the european transport safety council estimates that more than 26 000 citizens lost their lives on europe’s roads last year; it is therefore crucial to act on this issue.
in writing. — the european transport safety council estimates more than 26 000 citizens lost their lives on europe’s roads last year. i therefore voted for new eu procedures that will make it easier to bring non-uk drivers who break the law to justice and am calling on the uk government to bring the new rules into force as soon as possible.
in writing. — i strongly support this report which has the potential to save lives.
in writing. — this measure is fully supported by safety bodies and organisations in the motoring industry such as the aa and the institute of advanced motorists. research indicates that in the uk, 15% of speed offences alone are committed by non-resident drivers.
in writing. — i voted for new eu procedures that will make it easier to bring non-uk drivers who break the law to justice and am calling on the uk government to bring the new rules into force as soon as possible. along with fellow labour meps i voted for a directive to set up procedures for the exchange of information on eight road traffic offences including those linked to the main road risk factors: speeding; failing to use a seat-belt; using a mobile phone while driving; and drink-driving. the european transport safety council estimates more than 26 000 citizens lost their lives on europe’s roads last year. these new procedures will allow eu countries to exchange information to ensure people who commit serious traffic offences whilst driving a foreign-registered vehicle can be identified and can be traced when they return home.
in writing. — i strongly support road safety so voted in favour of all amendments. by exchanging information between member states, foreign registered drivers who commit certain traffic offences abroad such as speeding and drink-driving can be traced when they return home. this will be greatly important in securing the safety of everyone on the road.
in writing. — the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related and traffic offences directive in its original format provided an opt-out for the uk. however, even though the new legal basis for this directive does not allow the uk to opt-out, i was able to support this vote for two main reasons. firstly, the uk dvla already supplies this information to other member states on request and therefore it will not materially change current practice. secondly, given the number of non-british vehicles using uk roads currently, it would seem appropriate for the uk authorities to be able to access information on eu drivers who breach uk road safety rules or commit traffic offences whilst in the uk.
in writing. — this long-standing agreement includes the eu paying to plunder the waters of poorer countries. i do not support it, and therefore cannot support its renewal.
in writing. — i voted against the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal as it is not adequate. the section on black hake poses a problem, as does the subversion of the senegalese provisions on surveillance of fishing activities. we in wales believe that the sea should be sustainably and responsibly fished, and this agreement is not a productive measure in helping achieve this.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the nicolai report because i welcome the enhancement of cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones. i also welcome the fact that under the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement tailored support will be offered to senegal for conducting scientific research, monitoring and for fighting illegal fishing, as well as for small-scale fishing, including the rehabilitation of degraded ecosystems to allow the recovery of juvenile stocks.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this agreement as it will enhance cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones, in the interests of both parties. this agreement will provide an updated framework which takes into account the common fisheries policy and its external dimension.
in writing. — i supported the report as it aims to enhance cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy in the senegalese fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. — i voted for this proposal. taking into consideration the opportunities for the senegalese economy to prosper from a better exploitation of the stocks available, in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry, it is my opinion that the new agreement and the protocol are in both partiesʼ interests.
in writing. — the main objectives of the agreement is to provide an updated framework taking into account the priorities of the reformed common fisheries policy and its external dimension, with a view to establishing a strategic partnership between the european union and senegal in the field of fisheries. the aim is also to enhance cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal. i welcome the agreement and the mutual benefits that both senegal and the eu will enjoy in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry.
in writing. — i support a partnership between the european union and senegal in the field of fisheries. additionally, i am in favour of enhancing cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones. i believe this would be beneficial for both parties. i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, i voted in favour of my group’s resolution because i think it is simply impossible for the eu to be seen as a credible actor if it does not call for investigation and prosecution of the gross human rights violations that occurred in cia prisons. i am disappointed that some groups wanted to water down the message we are sending on this to the us because it concerns a major partner. what happened in the cia prisons is not only horrifying and legally wrong, it is also counterproductive in the context of our fight against terrorism, which means ultimately the security of our citizens is also on the line. that is why it is really important we investigate whether there has been transportation and illegal detention of prisoners by the cia in the eu so we can take the steps in line with eu interests if these allegations are proved true. i am of course particularly horrified by allegations that the uk government has lobbied to have deletion of any references to the uk from this report.
mr president, in the us, as in europe, there is widespread concern about abuses of civil rights. no one is going to argue with that. i would just ask the chamber to retain a sense of perspective. look immediately on europe’s doorstep and you will find regimes where torture is an instrument of state policy officially, where there are shootings of unarmed demonstrators, murders of journalists, and where there is no judicial process, and that is the fundamental difference. in a country that is governed by the rule of law, abuses are investigated and where proper punished, and that is not the case in a number of countries with which we also have relations. of course no country should be beyond criticism and when our american friends are in the wrong they are perfectly capable of self-criticism, as well as accepting criticisms from elsewhere, but let us just keep the bigger picture here. this is a country that is trying to save civilians from bad guys who are trying to kill indiscriminately. they are not in the same moral category as some of the murderous butchers both in government and in terror organisations to our south and east.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution as it lays the foundation for an important inquiry into and report on illegal rendition programmes within member states. it will also pave the way for more pressure to be put on the council, and on the member states concerned, to respond once and for all to parliament’s continued demands, as set out in 2012 and 2013 and in today’s resolution. the ongoing attempts by some european countries to stifle investigation of these human rights abuses are completely unacceptable. my own party, sinn féin, has been very vocal in its condemnation of the facilitation of secret cia detention, rendition and interrogation programmes in ireland through the use of our domestic airport in shannon. the irish government has helped facilitate the illegal actions of the cia by permitting the use of its airspace and airports for flights associated with cia extraordinary rendition operations. neither ireland nor any other eu member state can be complicit in human rights violations.
in writing. — i am not in favour of the use of torture. therefore there is much in this report to be commended. however, the full text is not ideal and much of the content is politically naive. therefore i abstained on this vote.
in writing. — i voted against the joint motion and in favour of my group’s own motion on the use of torture by the cia. this resolution deals with cia abuses on eu territory, but they are illegal wherever in the world they occur. the eu member states and high-level government ministers who were involved must face up to their role in the renditions programme. the european union values peace and justice. my constituents in wales were shocked at these events. we cannot allow abuses like this to happen again.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this motion for resolution as we need to push for accountability of human rights violations with regards to the cia rendition and secret detention programmes. we also need to call on eu member states to investigate any allegations of secret prisons. i believe there is no justification for the use of torture; human rights violations need to be strictly condemned.
in writing. — we see from the us senate report that some measures adopted to counter terrorism have violated human rights and the rule of law. the objectives are to save human lives and dignity in the face of a terrorist threat. the continued silence of some eu states is a disgrace. the parliament has demanded on numerous occasions that these countries must come clean. they must provide the whole truth about the human rights violations committed and facilitate genuine access to justice for all the victims. violation of human rights cannot serve as an excuse for combat against terrorism in the name of ‘national security’. respect for human rights and the rule of law must prevail and these must be the bedrock of it.
in writing. — i welcome the adoption of this resolution and voted in favour. it is a confirmation of the ep’s long-held position that torture is unacceptable and contrary to international law, wherever torture is practised in the world. i also welcome the fact that the ep continues to press for the closure of guantánamo. i wish to see the return of london resident shaker aamer to the uk to rejoin his wife and family. he is one of those mentioned in the resolution as cleared for transfer, and the uk government is prepared to accept him – yet, inexplicably, he remains in guantánamo. his case shows that the repercussions of extraordinary rendition and torture still continue to affect lives and have ongoing political consequences. the ep’s enquiries deserve to continue until questions are answered and justice is seen to be done.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution which ‘expresses its horror and deep condemnation of the gruesome interrogation practices that characterised these illegal counterterrorism operations; underlines the fundamental conclusion by the us senate that the violent methods applied by the cia failed to generate intelligence that prevented further terrorist attacks; recalls its absolute condemnation of torture̕.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this report because i support the union’s condemnation of illegal counter-terrorism activities in the united states.
in writing. — we live in a world filled with threats to the security of our allies and our own nations. these threats cross all international boundaries and have given us a common challenge. the rise of isis, with the large number of european citizens in its ranks and their ability to return to europe, has presented the eu with a clear and present danger. our ability to counter these threats is rooted in our ability to gather and share intelligence. that does not mean that we need to condone torture and disrespect human rights in order to keep our nations safe. counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory in nature. i welcome the executive orders issued by president obama banning torture and ensuring that the us respects the laws, both domestic and international, banning torture and inhumane treatment. i am thankful the senate committee publicly criticised the cia’s detention and interrogation programme. i propose greater cooperation between the intelligence agencies of the member states, as well as the eu and the us. we must work together to provide security for our nations while ensuring we do not infringe on the fundamental human rights of a single human being.
in writing. — i voted alongside my colleague in favour of the resolution asking the us senate to report on the use of torture by the cia because i express deep condemnation of the gruesome interrogation practices that characterised these illegal counterterrorism operations; i underline the fundamental conclusion by the us senate that the violent methods applied by the cia failed to generate intelligence that prevented further terrorist attacks.
mr president, the immediate aftermath of a terrorist atrocity is the one time when we should not legislate, because a false equation takes hold. people think that the political response should be proportionate to the sense of public outrage rather than proportionate to the need to address an identified security problem. in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, on both sides of the atlantic there were huge grabs of power by the state which would have made no difference in that instance, and which served to reduce our liberty without commensurately increasing our security. we are now doing exactly the same thing; in the aftermath of the abominations in paris and the aftershocks that were felt in other european cities there is this terrible sense that takes hold – in all legislatures, because politicians are sensitive to public opinion – saying something must be done. the something that should be done first is to exhaust the powers already at our disposal before we start grabbing for additional powers, and i cannot help noticing in this debate that a number of my colleagues in this house are using the recent atrocities to revive their long-standing calls for a further federalisation of security policy, rather than to address the need which we have in fact identified.
in writing. — i would like to place on record that i support the efdd amendments which are well-thought out. i cannot, however, support the whole text. i also supported the green proposal to protect encryption because of the consequences for secure banking. however, i voted against the overall report because this should be the preserve of member states.
in writing. — coming from a constituency blighted for so long by organised criminality led by republican terrorist gangs, i recognise the clear need to combat those involved in this activity to protect our community and economy. however, i also believe that it should not be the primary role of the european union to do so. national crime-fighting authorities should be the leading power in tracking down and breaking up these crime rings – not eu quangos such as a european public prosecutor’s office. and i hope all members present will join with me in welcoming the full extension of the uk national crime agency to northern ireland. this is a huge step forward in the fight against organised crime, and is testament to the fact that no political faction caught up with self-interest should be able to prevent a full fight against fuel and money laundering, as well as illicit trade. it is somewhat ironic that the sinn féin mep for northern ireland has criticised a top israeli military official as having ‘blood on his hands’, ignoring her own terrorist past and her party’s failing in refusing to support the fight against organised crime through the nca. i would call on parliament not to follow this dangerous precedent.
in writing. — i voted against the joint motion on anti-terrorism measures, as this resolution is sending the wrong message at the wrong time. the resolution agreed by the other groups in the parliament gives governments of eu member states free rein to scale back personal freedoms and liberties with measures that do not properly respond to the terrorist threat. ensuring our safety does not mean mass-surveillance and fewer rights. the safety of my constituents in wales is of the highest importance to me, and i want an effective strategy that includes giving priority to tackling the causes of terrorism.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because recent events clearly indicate the need for a counter-terrorism roadmap which ensures a better use of existing instruments in full respect of citizens’ rights, which creates new instruments where necessary, and connects the dots between action on local, national, eu and international levels. i am deeply concerned by reports stating that, at a time in which increased coordination is desperately needed, british intelligence officials are threatening to stop sharing information with berlin on jihadists returning from syria and iraq, amongst other issues, if germany pushes ahead with a parliamentary inquiry into british intelligence activities in their country. second, it is crucial that we fight the root-causes of radicalisation by adopting a preventive approach rather than a reactive one, which includes measures in the fields of education, inclusion and anti-discrimination. third, we need to reflect thoroughly about our foreign policy and the regimes we have been tolerating. events in libya, egypt and syria have shown us that repression breeds terrorism rather than stability. tackling terrorism both inside and outside europe will require us to start learning lessons from past mistakes – rather than simply repeating them.
in writing. — i voted in favour as i believe that we need to send a clear message that we are committed to tackling terrorism by looking at every aspect that leads to radicalism; there needs to be a multilayer approach on tackling the root causes of radicalism. labour meps call for better cooperation with agencies such as europol and eurojust and full use of existing measures such as the radicalisation awareness network (ran).
in writing. — i very much welcome the resolution, as it lays strong emphasis on the need to address the root causes of terrorism, by investing in educational programmes, promoting integration, social inclusion, dialogue, participation, equality, tolerance and understanding among different cultures and religions, as well as rehabilitation programmes. we urgently need to understand why young europeans, that have grown up here and were part of our society, alienate and radicalise to such an extent that they turn against all the values that stand for the same society they lived in. the eu counter-terrorism and counter-radicalisation roadmap with a comprehensive package of measures is essential, ensuring a better use of existing instruments, where necessary, creating new ones, involving at all levels practitioners in prevention, detection, and protection.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution which: ʽcondemns in the strongest terms the atrocities in paris, and reiterates its deepest sympathy with the people of france and the families of the victims, and its unity in the global fight against terrorism and the attack upon our democratic values and freedomsʼ.
in writing. — the greens/efa group today voted against the joint motion for a resolution on anti-terrorism measures, as the resolution is sending the wrong message at the wrong time. the resolution agreed by the 4 bigger political groups provides carte blanche for eu governments to scale back personal freedoms with measures that will fail to properly respond to the terrorist threat. instead of pushing for effective measures, the usual suspects who have been continually pushing for mass surveillance and data retention are using the paris attacks as an excuse to bulldoze through these measures, despite any evidence that they will prove effective in countering the terrorist threat. a coherent counter-terrorism strategy would focus on targeted surveillance of real suspects and ensuring security authorities have the means and resources to focus on specific risks and concrete suspicions, to follow any leads immediately, and to efficiently exchange information about dangerous individuals. this is what we should be trying to achieve. there is also a need to tackle radicalisation in schools and prisons. finally we are missing a call for a legal definition of profiling. stepping up mass surveillance will undermine security and is instead a victory for fundamentalists, who are combatting precisely such democratic freedoms
in writing. — along with fellow labour meps, i today voted for greater cooperation between eu countries and a renewed anti-terrorism strategy, following last month’s paris terror attacks. labour meps have called for better cooperation with agencies such as europol and eurojust and full use of existing measures such as the radicalisation awareness network (ran). in addition, labour meps backed a renewal of discussions on eu passenger name records (pnr) based on strong data protection standards and progression on the eu data protection package, which is being blocked by member states in the european council.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution as i support the eu’s counter-terrorism measures.
in writing. — my labour colleagues and i have voted in favour of more cooperation in the fight again terrorism. european countries must use the tools that are already at their disposal and cooperate better with eu agencies. any information-sharing has to respect eu and national data protection laws. we need to work hard to ensure we have proper security measures that fully respect fundamental rights – concluding negotiations on the data protection package is one way to achieve this.
mr president, yesterday i heard one of the right-wing uk meps state that politicians who support freedom of expression, religion and enterprise should feel a chill when hearing the words ‘internet governance’. now i value these rights extremely highly and that is why, rather than simply feeling negative or even scared when this issue is raised, i prefer to use my role as an mep to call on the commission to use this valuable opportunity offered by the igf for a truly multi-stakeholder forum for managing the internet. parliament can play a crucial role in turning this into a reality by participating in the annual igf meeting, and i urge the commission to coordinate closely with parliament to make sure the voices of our citizens are heard. the colleague i referred to also stated that he does feel, however, that there should be a means of preventing dissemination of material on the internet which facilitates terrorism. now knowing this, i am convinced that he will welcome the measures proposed by my party which call for reviewing police and cps guidance to ensure anti-semitism, islamophobia and other hate crimes – prime breeding grounds for extremism – are adequately tackled on social media.
in writing. — governments should not be interfering in the internet, and freedom should be respected (within the context of the rule of law, of course). neither should the european union be interfering. i therefore voted against.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. the igf allows democratic and transparent policy dialogue between a multitude of stakeholders. i believe that the internet should be a public and open space. the igf should reflect this, so i welcome the reform and extension of its mandate. it is important for my constituents in wales that internet freedoms and net neutrality are respected.
in writing. — i voted against the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. this mandate gives the european union the same standing in the igf as a nation state. not only does it give the eu more power but it directly attacks the sovereignty of member states and the principle of subsidiarity. there would be no additional benefits to the eu being awarded this status in this forum.
in writing. — i voted for this as i support the internet governance forum (igf) and believe that it has facilitated open and transparent discussions amongst stakeholders from all over the world. i would like to see the forum continued and the eu play a key role in the governance of the internet with increased globalisation.
in writing. — the internet governance forum has facilitated open and transparent discussions amongst stakeholders from all over the world, many of whom had not cooperated closely before. i therefore voted in favour of the report calling to renew the mandate of the forum, strengthen its resources and maintain the multistakeholder model of internet governance.
in writing. — i voted for this resolution which calls on the un general assembly to renew the mandate of the igf, and to strengthen its resources and the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the work of the igf in the field of internet governance.
mr president, we need more food-chain transparency, not only because having low levels of traceability facilitates food fraud, as we witnessed during the horsemeat scandal, but also because it undermines food safety and animal welfare. if we do not know where and how animals were raised, transported and slaughtered, how can we guarantee that their meat is healthy and that they have been treated in a proper humane way? improving animal welfare and traceability will not be possible if we continue with the current situation, in which millions of animals are transported extremely long distances in terrible conditions. so i urge the commission to listen to consumers – 90% of whom are calling for labelling, as proposed by this resolution – and to come forward with legislative proposals that address these issues in a comprehensive and effective manner. food is the key element in the development of sustainable society, and it is time that the commission stared treating it as such.
mr president, robert burns’ tribute to the haggis begins: fair fa’ your honest, sonsie face, great chieftain o’ the puddin’-race! for those of you here who have enjoyed haggis you will realise that it is quality sheep, but is it quality british sheep, is it quality scottish sheep? that is the real question. this particular piece of legislation will ensure that we are certain that when we eat haggis we are eating scottish haggis, made with scottish sheep. it will give us confidence in the way that we are able to consume processed food. that is a good thing. that will help not just scottish farmers and scottish consumers, but across the whole of the eu. that is why i was comfortable and happy, pleased and proud, to support this particular proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which provides strong measures to ensure that mandatory country-of-origin labelling for processed meat products is included on all processed meats. the benefits of origin labelling are not limited to consumers: it is clear from the number of producers and farmers who have voluntarily opted into the bord bia scheme in ireland that it offers advantages to the food industry. moreover, this resolution highlights the need for more transparency, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. — labelling is no guarantee that meat will be processed correctly. there is a trade-off between consumer desire for transparency and consumer desire to keep costs down, for example. we are talking here about processed foods, which are not a single food item. if you are sourcing ingredients from different sources on a day-to-day basis, then there are issues with administration. low-priced products could be lost as a result of this resolution. voluntary labelling is one thing; legislation for mandatory labelling is another thing altogether. on the other hand, i recognise that british farmers want to have their products labelled. for their sake, i abstained rather than voting against.
in writing. — i am a strong advocate of consumers knowing where and how their food has been manufactured, however, i do not believe mandatory country of origin labelling would have helped to prevent the horse-meat scandal. the horse-meat scandal was fraud carried out by criminals only interested in making money. we need better enforcement of the current legislation rather than more red tape. furthermore, the unintended consequence of country of origin labelling for northern ireland has been to restrict market access for liquid milk to the republic of ireland. country of origin labelling has been manipulated to exclude produce from northern ireland being sold in the roi. this is clearly a breach of the single market obligations and damaging to farmers in my constituency, northern ireland. i have no doubt that mandatory country of origin labelling will exacerbate this problem across the eu if not dealt with correctly.
in writing. — a recent survey carried out by the european commission showed approximately 90% of european citizens believe clear labelling is important. since the horsemeat scandal of 2013, consumers have been concerned with knowing the origin of their food. country of origin labelling is already mandatory for all meat products; it is the obvious next stage to extend that to meat when it is an ingredient in food products. another clear advantage is that this will enable the consumer to buy nationally produced meat. as a strong supporter of farmers in scotland, i welcome any legislation that encourages this. therefore, i was happy to follow the uk government and ecr group line and vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of calling on the commission to take action on country of origin labelling for meat in processed foods. i have long campaigned for this and my constituents in wales, consumers and producers, feel very strongly about this measure too. i hope the commission will now bring legislation forward.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the country of origin labelling for processed meat products as it increases the transparency of processed food products and ultimately will benefit consumers. the ecr is committed to transparency and accountability in all european regulation and welcomes this opportunity for consumers to make informed choices.
in writing. — the recent horsemeat scandal served to damage consumer trust in the meat sector. whilst country of origin labelling for processed meat used as an ingredient would not have prevented such fraud, the scandal has nonetheless generated greater consumer interest in, and awareness of, the origin of meat and meat products. as policy-makers we need to take action to meet the expectations of today’s consumers. introducing mandatory country of origin labelling for meat used as an ingredient would therefore constitute an important step towards rebuilding consumer confidence in the meat sector, and would enable consumers to exercise their desire to make more informed choices. for these reasons i supported today's resolution calling for the european commission to bring forward proposals in this respect. any future proposal must naturally seek to minimise the possible cost burdens on producers and consumers, and i would welcome additional assessments from the commission on how this could be implemented proportionately and cost-effectively.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution for mandatory country of origin labelling for all meat in processed food. we have country of origin labelling for fresh meat but it is crucial that the same rules apply to meat in processed food. indeed, 90% of consumers want this information, which will allow them to make more informed decisions about the food they buy. given the supply chain for meat in processed food operates across borders, eu-wide labelling is the only viable option.
in writing. — i strongly supported the report. country of origin labelling will help to restore trust in the food industry, which was badly damaged following the horsemeat scandal. consumers have a right to know where their meat comes from and labour meps have been calling for this for several years. it will allow consumers to make more informed decisions about the food they buy. this is about clear, honest labelling that does not mislead consumers. if a beef lasagne is labelled as a british product, then this should mean that it was made with british beef.
in writing. — i welcome this resolution which reiterates a call for the commission to take all necessary steps to make the prevention and combating of food fraud an integral part of eu policy and to address structural weaknesses within the overall food chain, in particular by increasing and strengthening monitoring.
in writing. — origin labelling should be mandatory for all meat, including meat in processed foods. the commission’s own research found that 90% of consumers want this labelling. the commission says that labelling meat in processed foods would incur significant costs, which would be passed on to consumers. however, this is based on industry self-reporting. consumer research in france found that labelling the origin of beef in a frozen lasagne would cost just eur 0.015.
in writing. — i voted today for mandatory country of origin labelling for all meat in processed food, backing stronger traceability requirements for meat in burgers, ready meals and sandwiches. ninety per cent of consumers want this information, which will allow them to make more informed decisions about the food they buy. this is about clear, honest labelling that does not mislead consumers. if a beef lasagne is labelled as a british product, then this should mean that it was made with british beef country of origin labelling will also help to restore trust in the food industry, which was badly damaged following the horsemeat scandal. labour meps believe consumers have a right to know where their meat comes from and we have been calling for this for several years.
in writing. — i believe that european citizens should be aware of the country of origin of meat in processed foods so backed this resolution.
in writing. — mandatory labelling of country of origin of meat in processed foods is a step towards rebuilding consumer trust in meat products following the horsemeat scandal and enabling consumers to make more informed choices. country of origin labelling is already in place for beef following the bse crisis and today’s vote calls for this to be extended to cover meat from pigs, sheep, goats and poultry. i supported today’s vote but hope that when the commission brings forwards its proposals they will do so whilst minimising any cost burdens on producers and consumers to ensure the measures are implemented proportionately and cost effectively.
in writing. — as with other food products, british consumers want to know what meat they are buying and prefer it to be home-grown. i have campaigned regularly for improved food labelling given that country of origin labelling is already mandatory for all meat products, it is the obvious next stage to extend that to meat when it is an ingredient in food products. as a strong supporter of farmers in the uk and the ‘buy british’ campaign, i welcome any legislation that encourages clarity in labelling and helps both the customer and producer.
in writing. — i voted in favour of mandatory country of origin labelling for all meat in processed food. country of origin labelling will help to restore trust in the food industry, which was badly damaged following the horsemeat scandal. labour meps believe consumers have a right to know where their meat comes from and we have been calling for this for several years.
in writing. — i do not support the principle of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. whilst i agree with the sentiment of many amendments, this is not the way to tackle those issues.
in writing. — the ukip delegation voted against this report for the following reasons: we believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is little more than a front for meps to take lavish holidays; we believe that the way for promoting aid work in development nations is better suited through co-operation between hmg and commonwealth nations.
in writing. — the ukip delegation voted against this report for the following reasons: 1. we believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is little more than a front for meps to take lavish holidays. 2. we believe that the way for promoting aid work in development nations is better suited through cooperation between hm government and commonwealth nations.
in writing. — the ukip delegation voted against this report for the following reasons: - we believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is little more than a front for meps to take lavish holidays. - we believe that the way for promoting aid work in development nations is better suited through co-operation between hm government and commonwealth nations.
in writing. — the ukip delegation voted against this report for the following reasons: - we believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is little more than a front for meps to take lavish holidays. - we believe that the way for promoting aid work in development nations is better suited through cooperation between hmg and commonwealth nations.
in writing. — crucial in gaining my support for the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly was the fact that my group has been able to secure amendments referring to human rights and non-discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the acp countries, as well as calling for more strategic approach for the acp-eu jpa. this is particularly important in the run-up to the negotiations on the post-2015 development framework and the post- 2020 cotonou framework.
in writing. — i welcome this report on the activity and work of the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa). the acp-eu jpa is a forum where the political dialogue should be open, frank and productive. it is crucial to recognise the opportunities and challenges of the present format. s&d meps have previously secured amendments referring to human rights and non-discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the acp countries, as well as calling for more strategic approach for the acp-eu jpa especially with regard to the negotiations on the post-2015 development framework and the eu-acp relations after 2020 when the cotonou agreement expires.
in writing. — i supported the report. the acp-eu jpa is a forum where the political dialogue should be open, frank and productive. it is crucial to recognise the opportunities and challenges of the present format as we start reflecting on the post-cotonou framework in 2020.
in writing. — i voted for this report. through the quality of its work, the assembly has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation. it has proactively continued to monitor political, economic and social developments in the acp countries, with a view to promoting development goals and the respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including respect for fundamental social rights, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance that are an integral part of sustainable development.
in writing. — the draft report analysed the jpa activity in 2012 and 2013 and welcomed its work. i voted in favour of the s&d group tabled 10 amendments referring to human rights and non-discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the acp countries, as well as calling for more a strategic approach for the jpa especially in regards to post-2015 sustainable development goals and the replacement to the cotonou agreement, which runs out in 2020.
in writing. — the ukip delegation voted against this report for the following reasons: - we believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is little more than a front for meps to take lavish holidays. - we believe that the way for promoting aid work in development nations is better suited through co-operation between hm government and commonwealth nations.
in writing. — the ukip delegation voted against this report for the following reasons. - we believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is little more than a front for meps to take lavish holidays. - we believe that the way for promoting aid work in development nations is better suited through co-operation between hmg and commonwealth nations.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the cooperation between the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, and the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria has reached catastrophic proportions, with an estimated 200 000 documented killings in the conflict so far. clearly the syrian assad regime is at the root of the problem, but most recently the existential threat to the region and its minority communities, such as the christians, mandaeans, yazidis, shia muslims and lgbti communities, has come from the barbarous and fanatic so-called islamic state. therefore my group welcomes the most recent jordanian and uae escalated air force response against isis following the horrific murder of a captured pilot. it has been some six months now since the american president obama gathered together around 60 countries into a military coalition to degrade and ultimately destroy isis. in my mind, the three main target priorities for the coalition must be to interdict and destroy is money-raising facilities, such as oil installations, and destroy their ammunition dumps and their training camps. of the more than 3 000 european fighters with is, sadly over 500 come from my country, the united kingdom. the uk is a major military power so we must do more from my country to step up the efforts and, along with all the eu states, adopt an uncompromising approach towards eu citizens who have gone abroad to join isis and other militant jihadi groups. we must also coordinate intelligence gathering and sharing and ensure that the laws are in place in our member states to prosecute those who have committed atrocities, including kidnappings, bombings, false religious conversions and ritual execution of hostages in cold blood. i would like to take this opportunity also to thank and congratulate the kurdish peshmerga and salute their amazing courage and bravery, which has been so evident with the reports confirming their resilience and protection of innocent civilians such as yazidis, following the recent attacks on them by isis, and helping the ypg liberate kobani in syria. however, tragically, for the meantime the desperate humanitarian situation continues in the region. eu member states must do all they can to mobilise the needed resources to the region and help civilians and refugees, particularly in countries like lebanon, jordan and turkey, and to ultimately militarily destroy the evil of isis.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would start by commending the fair degree of cross-party working which we have seen in the drawing up of this resolution. i think it is a decent attempt to take stock of where we are in this crisis and to place in context the humanitarian disaster, the risk of radicalisation locally and in our own countries and, indeed, the political acts that have brought us here – because they are all interlinked in various ways. it is important that we realise that the so-called islamic state is as much a consequence as a cause of how we came to be here. the disastrous intervention in iraq – and i very much echo a previous speaker’s comments – created the conditions for instability and radicalisation. the politicians responsible for that disastrous, illegal intervention should hang their heads in shame. the situation in syria was further exacerbated by those conditions and was ignited, as the resolution also highlights, by the plethora of dreadful abuses by the assad regime, which themselves feed and fuel the conditions in which extremists can thrive. those conditions have created a flood of refugees which is almost impossible to cope with, greater than the population of scotland and threatening to trip the neighbouring countries into anarchy as well. the resolution also takes account of the dreadful actions of islamic state, but in part 3, i believe, we indicate a reasonable way out. we must have a coherent strategy: a cohesive response is needed to coordinate all aspects of engagement. commissioner, i was glad to hear your view, which you have expressed before, that the solution is political. the eu has cleaner hands than most in this discussion, and cleaner certainly than most of our member states. we support you in your efforts.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the time has come for all of us in this chamber to move forward from the frequently repetitive debates every parliamentary session, which increasingly sound like a stuck record. if we genuinely seek a lasting resolution to this regional instability and a tragic humanitarian crisis, then the time has come for member states and a wider international community, not least moderate islamic nations, to confront the root of this cancer. both the saudi and the qatari governments must now further face up to their sponsorship, whether indirect or not, of this frankenstein’s monster that has been created in the form of islamic state. furthermore, the wahhabi-run schools must be directly tackled and stopped from spreading their doctrine of hate. unless the saudis accept their role in allowing the propagation of this fundamentalist ideology, the problem will only expand further, as is already happening, not least in yemen, the next item on today’s agenda.
madam president, the escalation of armed conflict – thanks to isis – across iraq and neighbouring syria has resulted in a serious and worsening humanitarian crisis. there have been new and secondary movements of internally displaced people (idps) across the entire region. the numbers are really staggering, with approximately three million in iraq and 7.6 million in syria. one issue disclosed at a recent iraq delegation meeting is that there is very little information on those in isis-controlled areas. the real extent of the humanitarian challenge is well hidden. as the brave peshmerga and iraqi forces push to regain territory from isis, such as at kobani, so we see the true extent of the underlying damage and deprivation. many of those internally displaced have been subject to the most unthinkable of crimes, with large numbers of women and children raped or sexually abused by isis. there is a great need for counselling support, not just the basics. as president of the iraq delegation, i encourage international partners, the iraqi government and the kurdistan regional government to redouble their efforts in terms of financial and logistical support in providing essential services, land allocation and site preparation for idp camps. our thoughts are very much with the people of iraq and syria at this very troubled time.
madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner for the work that he is doing. the syrian conflict is now entering its fifth year and there is still no end in sight. the brutality of isis has been horrifying. their acts of barbarity have no religious justification and are war crimes against humanity. seven million refugees, especially children, are under threat from the winter months right now. it is imperative that funding of the humanitarian emergency is top priority and all necessary actions are taken to ensure the safety and protection of the most vulnerable. it is, however, even more crucial that we sever the problem from the roots. despite the tragedy facing syrian civilians under isis rule, the ruling assad regime is responsible for far more deaths, displacements and destruction. were it not for the assad regime, isis would never have been able to take root in syria. even the elimination of isis will not end the radicalised opposition groups, and syria has new groups which are likely to emerge to fill the void. this happened in iraq where authoritarian and divisive rule opened the door for the emergence of isis. the international community must realise that the only way forward for syria and to defeat isis is to address the root cause of the conflict, namely the assad regime. that is also largely responsible for the humanitarian crisis facing the country. the eu must increase its pressure on the regime and help restore peace and security in the country and thus in the region.
in writing. – a previous speaker said that is must be defeated militarily. yes, but ideas cannot be defeated by military means alone. the root cause of the problem is an ideological one at the heart of the islamic religion, and it can only be won by moderate muslims overcoming the extremists. the first step in doing so is for moderate muslims to reject those religious texts in the qur’an that encourage or excuse violence. for example: ‘kill infidels wherever you find them. make war on infidels. strike terror into the hearts of infidels’. moderate muslims know very well that in the eyes of the fundamentalist extremists they too qualify as ‘infidels’ as much as the unbelievers. the moderate muslims of the world have a vested interest in bringing their religion into the modern world. the savages of is will still be savages but their spurious ideological justifications for violence and bestiality must be removed. that can only be done when their fellow muslims remove the ideological ground from under their feet.
in writing. – the advance of isis over the past number of months has shocked the world as we see the group commit some of the most extreme barbaric acts of terror. the rise of isis has compounded an already desperate humanitarian situation in iraq and syria, both devastated by years of civil war and sectarian violence. millions in iraq and syria have been displaced as isis makes advances – adding to those who have already been displaced as a result of the syrian civil war. in both countries, civilians are inevitably caught up in isis violence – from forced conversions to brutal executions. isis terrorists are being targeted in both countries by a us-led coalition, though air-strikes have not done enough to eradicate the threat. the uk government is supporting international efforts to combat the isis threat and the uk parliament has voted in support of air strikes against isis targets in iraq. another deeply troubling element to the isis threat is the number of british and other eu nationals who have been radicalised and have chosen to join with isis and fight in iraq and syria. this poses a major domestic security threat if or when such ‘foreign fighters’ return home.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, whether we call what has happened in yemen a coup or not, those now in government have called themselves a revolutionary council and, of course, there are deep concerns about the role of iran. nevertheless, europe must maintain lines of communication and support the un-led mediation efforts. the alternatives are worse. clearly, this morning’s news of the closure of the british and other embassies is a further potent sign of the failure of the rule of law in the country. it is only a month since in this chamber we gave a memorial for the charlie hebdo attack, and we should recall how responsibility for it was claimed by al-qaida in yemen. this is a country where we all need to have some humility. i remember baroness ashton in this chamber saying yemen was the model for the eu’s comprehensive strategy. president obama called it a model for the united states counter-terrorism strategy. i know diplomats who say we have devoted considerable help to yemen but not sufficiently to enable the domestic government to have the capacity to deliver on the reform aspirations of its people. in 2012 i was with mr preda and i went and sat in the tents in sana’a’s freedom square, listening to the hopes of the young protestors. i have heard the yemeni children saying that they have nightmares about the sound of drone attacks – the same stories my own mother told me about the v2 bombs from the second world war – and i wonder whether the existing efforts are truly countering terrorism or are instead in danger of fuelling it. today we are looking at what increasingly threatens to be another failed state, and the lessons of yemen are twofold. first, we must make the right diplomatic responses now to do all we can to avoid the country sliding down even further. but second, if we want to protect our own people and promote our own principles, where reform is under way in the arab world, we have to do more and better to support it when we can. the failures of a failed state are our failures too.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the situation in yemen is particularly dire, with today’s news that the us, france and the uk have all closed their embassies over major security concerns. the recent coup d’état is one further event in a long line of political crises stretching back decades. protests led by the southern democratic assembly, who seek an independent, aden-led south arabia, have remained peaceful, despite further violence breaking out across the country. i believe it vital to support their democratic aspirations for self-determination to help secure a safe, sovereign area in this crucially important strategic point. what the region needs now, more than ever – just like across the gulf of aden in somaliland – is a beacon of hope to show what proud moderates and globally-engaged people can achieve. in south arabia and somaliland we can have that possibility.
mr president, today, 11 february, marks the fourth anniversary of the uprising of the yemeni people demanding their rightful democratic and civil state. the recent violence and illegal takeover by houthi militants and the resignation of the executive threatened the territorial integrity of the country and the stability of the region, making an already dire humanitarian situation worse. sixty-nine percent of the population rely on some form of humanitarian aid. these problems are likely to intensify as the instability continues. all parties, especially the houthi movement who are now in control, must return to genuine dialogue and inclusive negotiations. they must take clear responsibility for their actions, rejecting violence and oppression as political tools. only a broad political consensus can provide a sustainable solution to the current crisis, and security is an essential prerequisite for the success of the transition. all parties need to cooperate to protect civilians and show immediate and unhindered humanitarian access on the ground. sadly, although the eu is the leading humanitarian aid donor it plays a minor diplomatic role in yemen. this must change. outside power must stop fuelling violence by equipping and funding armed groups. the eu must facilitate the process of state-building in yemen, promote the political dialogue and democratic reform and help in improving the security situation. we must stand by the people of yemen at this critical juncture.
mr president, we are obliged to remain engaged within this region and we are obligated to the people of yemen for three main reasons. firstly, as ever, it is worth remembering that the problems of today are rooted in the legacy of empire – in yemen’s case toxic legacies of the ottoman and british empires. secondly, it is the right thing to do. there is a humanitarian disaster where we can assist the un’s efforts. if we do not, i do not see anybody else stepping up to the plate in any serious way to state-build. thirdly, if we do not, yemen will continue even more to become a breeding ground for radicalisation and terrorism against each other and indeed against us. the fact is that, despite our fairly recent efforts as a european union, yemen is not a functioning state. it is this failure of corruption and failure to provide basic services that has so disenfranchised and disengaged the people of yemen and we must continue to engage in state building. it is not as though we do not have the expertise and resources to that. we have put forward a number of ideas with this. we must be in for the long haul. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr smith, as someone who seeks independence for your own nation from a bigger united kingdom, do you understand the aspirations of the south arabian people who seek – after such distress and this long history of being in a situation where a largely sunni part of the yemen is currently under the control of a new shia group – do you understand, actually, that perhaps independence might be a good option for south arabia here?
blue-card answer. – i certainly do support independence for scotland because i can speak on behalf of the people of scotland in this chamber and a substantial proportion of scotland. i think it is dangerous to say that that logic applies to every place in every circumstance, and international law is really quite clear that we deal with these matters, on their merits, according to the reality on the ground. i myself am fairly relaxed about constitutional change but that must be managed by the international community peacefully and democratically achieved, and with the support of precisely those organisations like the european union which must engage in state-building, because the problem that we have in yemen is rooted in the fact that the people of yemen see nothing in sana’a, or indeed any other capital that they are looking to, to actually support them.
mr president, it is with deep concern that we note the developments in yemen, and with the uk and us and other western nations withdrawing their missions from yemen, i think the situation is set to get worse. this week we also heard from a former cia director that al-qaeda in the arab peninsula is even bigger than is, and aqap is making fast progress on a technological front. therefore, when the eu heads of state or government discuss counter-terrorism tomorrow they need to include measures that increase coordination of intelligence amongst us, with respect to yemeni al-qaeda, and have a plan for concrete action to support un-sponsored national dialogue and support building a stronger state. it is also important that we do not just get a dialogue with a single interlocutor at the cost of inclusiveness. failure to have all the groups on board is why we are where we are in yemen today. i ask why the talks that began on monday are already faltering; this indicates the gravity of the task ahead of us. \* (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer. – thank you mr rübig – absolutely. it is only time that prevented me from mentioning the gcc. i think it is important that, along with the national dialogue, we also include the gcc, so i think the more players that are involved, the greater the possibility that we could find some kind of possible solution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, our shared values of freedom, democracy and tolerance are, of course, the very foundations of europe and this union. too often i think, though, this parliament tries to quantify in a scientific way values which simply cannot be quantified. it has been my long experience in life that scoreboards, monitoring indicators and benchmarks often do little to reflect or alleviate the realities of any situation. i believe that instead of developing binding instruments to punish member states and providing tools for political point-scoring, we should instead ask ourselves, ‘are such mechanisms the most appropriate vehicles for honest, frank and open discussions, and hopefully, therefore, solutions?’ what we need to do is to develop debate and action across the eu on how we can improve fundamental rights and the rule of law within our countries and how we can better, therefore, the lives of our citizens. this parliament and the commission should look at how it can help remove barriers to the job market, increase access for those with disabilities, eradicate discrimination against lgbti persons, assist with social mobility, help create more jobs for young people and remove burdensome red tape from the economy and our businesses, so that europe’s economy and opportunities for citizens can grow. opportunities and economic progress in member states is how you promote fundamental rights. a helping hand is always better than a scolding tongue. we are not each other’s masters, but instead we are each other’s partners. what we do not need are new ways to threaten each other. what we do need to do is to focus on better law-making, better implementation and better and positive ways of talking to one another.
madam president, england has no need of an eu framework for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. we had a democracy that evolved over eight centuries. that democracy is now hollow, as most of our laws now come from the european union and not our own democratically elected parliament and government. we had a rule of law that had evolved since the days of alfred the great, but english law is now superseded by eu law. impartial english courts are now overridden by the political courts of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights. our ancient protections of individual liberties such as habeas corpus have been swept away by such measures as the european arrest warrant. we had fundamental rights in england, developed over centuries under common law and such enactments as magna carta and the bill of rights. there is nothing that the eu can teach the english about democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, last monday i think the number that was cited by frontex, the agency, was 106 lives saved. of course, every day the european asylum support office does its dedicated work. i was involved in the trialogues and negotiations for the asylum support office and many colleagues here were involved in frontex, a serious committee trying to work with these serious people and serious agencies. over 14 years since these agencies were created, the estimate (and it is only an estimate) is that over 22 000 lives have been lost. in the last few months, it is not lost lives, it is a more brutal form of trafficking – these ghost ships, a much more calculated and cynical way of killing people when they cannot get their money. so let us be very clear: there are some people in this chamber who will want to talk about a more existential threat to immigration, and they will want to talk about immigration in their own national spheres. but let us be very clear – of all the lives that have been lost, when we are talking about frontex and the agencies, we in parliament have been doing very meticulous work, and i have seen that work. there are good people in these agencies, and i have met them. so let us be very clear about the council. i was in riga recently, and i heard one member state saying that (i have just written it down because i wrote it at the time) resourcing further council cooperation in the mediterranean will act as a push factor. now the issue is that saving lives in the mediterranean is a resource-rich issue which goes far beyond frontex and the asylum support office. the asylum support office is an intelligence-led, information-rich office. frontex is an agency which spots people who are dying and who are potentially going to die in a fairly small-scale operation. our assets are small and limited: i have seen that. so for the council, it has to do its job and it has to do it collectively, and we need the council to do its job and the commission to help us do it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do apologise, i got a bit emotional and forgot i just had two minutes. the question of numbers is a really pertinent question, because the issue is that the numbers we get are secondary sources, and i think we just cannot tell who is dying. these are coming from the agencies, but many of them are coming from the italian coastguard itself. i think the pertinent issue is that we are not getting the numbers of people who are actually dying, and there are thousands of people dying who we never hear of in the mediterranean. his holiness alluded to this in his speech to the chamber. so people should focus on those who we never hear of who die unknown, and i think this is the real tragedy of the mediterranean.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this is not a new issue of course. we have talked about it here for many months. in the 1990s, i myself was the uk minister for immigration and asylum and i recognise the sensitivities attached to the whole issue. of course we do not want to repeat ourselves, but it really is, despite good intentions, enormously challenging now. the same concerns are in place. the situation faced by the european union as a whole is a very serious one regarding immigration and asylum. of course the european asylum support office and the frontex agency have a large and important role to play in the challenges we face to manage migration into the eu and to secure our external border. these are two agencies whose work i support, but my overall concerns remain the same as ever. more must be done to assist member states who receive large numbers of migrants. too many migrants slip through the net unprocessed. they remain in europe, vulnerable to exploitation, and are undocumented. the terrible news of the further 300 fatalities underlines why more must be done to save the lives of those who tragically go to sea seeking a new life, and much more must be done to catch, detain and prosecute the actual perpetrators of the human trafficking itself. more must also be done to assist member states in the integration and resettlement of asylum seekers, and more must be done by the commission to ensure that those countries where migrants first arrive can properly deal with them, as soon as they arrive, in the right conditions. i am saddened that sometimes, particularly with children, they remain very vulnerable in the process that takes place. the commission needs to offer a clear strategy and a clear way forward so this parliament and european citizens can again regain confidence that the european asylum system is working fairly and efficiently and that it benefits both those who genuinely seek asylum and all the citizens of the eu itself. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr kirkhope, would you agree with me that the trigger-happy uk government which intervened in libya and wanted to intervene in syria, that the policies of that government is a major contribution to the tragedy of the mediterranean?
blue-card answer. – no, lord dartmouth, i would not. i think that the interventions and the international scene of the british government, certainly in recent times, have been to try and help humanity, to try and actually deal with despots and tyrants which the world needs to deal with and where we need a courageous government to take such actions. furthermore, it does seem to me, lord dartmouth, that the progressive view of the british government to those who travel and migrants generally is something that we should be very proud of as british subjects, and i am very sorry that you have such a reluctance to admit that pride. (applause)
blue-card question. – speaking as the grandson of a refugee from poland and, indeed, the grandson of a proud british lady who took in a family of asylum seekers following the hungarian 1956 uprising – so someone who has strong support for the concept of asylum – do you not realise clearly from the comments you have just made that this whole concept of free movement within the european union actually places such great constraints on the member states that the ability to offer asylum as much as possible cannot be given?
madam president, today there have been more innocent victims of the human traffickers, but victims – i would say to everybody here in the chamber this evening, the few of us that are here – of failed eu policies, the eu’s failure to control its borders and therefore directly the responsibility of frontex. let us go through some figures, everybody. let us just expose what we are talking about. an eu budget of eur 84 million, 82 500 kilometres of land and sea borders to patrol and it works out at eur 2.8 a day per kilometre and a detection rate of one in ten. look at the us, and i heard the comment about fortress europe and such, but just look at the us. funded to the tune of usd 13 billion with less than half the kilometres of borders to actually patrol and manage but it has invested in infrastructure and resources. it has fences, it has electronic and satellite surveillance and it has 20 000 agents patrolling. that level of investment delivers a detection rate of 61 % and starts to deal with the problem. therefore, anyone reading those figures, understanding those figures, would recognise that frontex is a complete and utter irrelevance. you do not have to be an economic migrant to actually want to come here and create a problem. you can be somebody quite legitimately getting hold of genuine papers but from somebody who is producing and supplying them unlawfully or illegally. where does that leave us? it leaves us with two very clear problems. eu policy has subverted the ability and the very will of member states to control their borders and secondly, this state of affairs is a product quite clearly of the failings of eu policy on freedom of movement and labour and persons. i am going to leave you with some messages. the traffickers – yes, they can continue to line their pockets with vast amounts of cash. we are going to see more tragedies like we saw today. frontex is not fit for purpose and it never will be. my message to you all and to the eu is to go back to the drawing board on eu policy or go back to the piggy bank and actually resource this properly.
madam president, i have no objection to genuine cooperation between sovereign nation states and it would make sense for all european countries affected by illegal immigration to contribute financially to external border controls. but this is not what we are discussing. everything here leads to an increase in eu power and dominion. the commissioner said that frontex should lead to a common border control system. he said that the council intends to focus on implementing a common immigration and asylum system and the harmonisation of asylum application rules. these harmonised rules can be guaranteed to be more lax than the existing national rules. the eu wants to decide how many migrants should be allowed in and to which countries they should be sent. britain’s representative on the council is of course david cameron. no doubt, while telling british voters that he wants tighter immigration controls, he will simultaneously work to implement laxer eu rules on migration.
blue-card question. – thank you very much for your comments, sir. i would just like to raise with you the aspect of orphan drugs and the market for those, where the patient pools are often very small, and as a result drug costs have to be very high. are you now advocating drug cost subsidisation and, if you are, on what scale and in which areas? just so that patients know!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, here we have another example of fairy-tale economics. we do not simply conjure money into the commission to enable member states to work harder in their health systems to get access to medicine. that money has to come from the member states: it does not go round and round and multiply magically. access to medicines is an economic issue. the pricing and reimbursement of medicines within the eu is a member state competence under article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this parliament is not the appropriate forum for this discussion. each member state has its own unique healthcare system with varying degrees of state funding for reimbursement. it is the responsibility of the individual member states to use their bargaining power to keep these costs as low as possible. this is to enable their own health services to work better. nobody is pretending that that is easy, but each member state must prioritise funding on the basis of its own national plans, and sometimes tough decisions have to be made. there is no evidence anywhere to suggest that transferring this competence to the eu would produce any improvement at all. probably exactly the opposite would happen. these budgets should remain in the hands of member state governments – governments which are directly elected by their citizens rather than run by officials here in brussels. we should be debating the economic health of europe: ensuring thriving economies that can afford the best of health for their citizens.
mr president, the cost of drugs is increasing, and that is a very simple economic fact. we need to recognise that drug innovation is pivotal to future cure and treatment options – and that comes with cost, of which there are two components: development time and research process. we cannot short circuit that, and we should not even attempt to do so. we have to be realistic. the eu would do well to accept that, historically, interventions have created and exacerbated access eligibility. they have not actually delivered any resolution. clinical trial interference is a very good example of this. additional distortion and disruption from the eu, as colleagues have already mentioned this evening, is not going to help. but let me give members a list of things that maybe we should be debating this evening. what about parallel imports caused by the eurozone issues? what about stopping penalising uk and european manufacturers of both patent-protected and generic products via the hta system? what about supporting drug development and innovation in academia and the commercial sectors on a free-market basis? what about preventing access from fraudulent medicines, and what about penalising countries that do not adhere to our patent systems? if we could deal with the inefficiencies of drug waste, drug dumping and patient compliance, we would do an awful lot to help with patient access. ‘want’, ‘need’ and ‘should have’ for patients can be delivered, but you do not do it by more intervention. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for your question. may i suggest you go back to your sources, because you are incorrect with the figures you gave this evening. any drug company will tell you, whether it is a generic manufacture or coming from the academic sector, that it takes a lot longer, and that they do need the time to actually develop that. if we are going to start penalising companies when they are bringing forward therapeutic innovation, i think we have started off from the wrong position.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the measure of any society is how we protect those who cannot protect themselves. there are very few situations where there is an absolute right and an absolute wrong, but where the exploitation and abuse of children is concerned there is no confusion. it is the worst kind of crime. we must do all we can at every level, national, european and global, to eradicate it and punish those that seek to do children harm. arguments on freedom of expression and the right to privacy cease to be relevant in this context, and when we ask ourselves what needs to be done to stop the abuse it is quite simple: everything humanly possible. we need to work with internet companies and providers, social media, schools, parents, communities and police authorities. we need to block search results that lead to child abuse. we need to identify illegal images and take them down. we need to capture and prosecute perpetrators and provide justice for victims, and to give ourselves the tools to do so. then we need to offer victims the necessary help and assistance to feel safe again. there are too many dark corners in the internet, and the most heinous of crimes are committed there. children need a united voice committed to protecting them and their childhood.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i am pleased to see that this issue has been given some attention. the best way to advance this discussion is on the basis of a detailed proposal coming from the committee on civil liberties, which we await. obviously this is a big issue but it is an area that needs to be looked at from a grassroots perspective: that is the only way to ensure children are protected. children are carrying around smartphones in their pockets, and very few are aware of the risks associated with them. we need to explore the use and danger of new media so that children take precautions, and we need to ensure that parents and educators have the skills to inform. we should look at solutions which, while protecting children, also protect a free internet, and we should open up the discussion and raise awareness. recently in my own constituency in the north of ireland, relatively innocent photographs of schoolgirls were obtained and used online: 732 photographs of schoolchildren from 19 post-primary schools were on a pornographic website used by paedophiles. this is shocking stuff, but it should be used as an example to show others in this age group just how careful they need to be. many believe that the people uploading these photographs should have been arrested, and this leads to the question of necessary measures to address this issue of ownership of photographs on social network sites, and how they are legally or illegally prepared.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think all of us will welcome the review of the directive when it comes later this year. it is very disturbing for us to hear just how many member states have still, apparently, not fully transposed its provisions. obviously, as people have said, the removal of existing content on websites is an important issue, and the directive makes it very clear that action to take down sites is compulsory and that, even if member states choose to block, we need to be clear in the law about where responsibility lies. i think this partly answers the question that was raised earlier about service providers or whoever else it is: the law needs to be clear about what their action should be, and i think the directive is clear on people’s responsibility. i would also welcome it if the commission could say a little more about the difficulties it is having in getting agreement with third countries where sites are hosted and how that can be followed up, because we are all aware that child abuse images should not be acceptable in any country in the world. indeed, child abuse itself should not be acceptable. i think we also we need to link together some of the actions that we are taking on vulnerable children, for example the measures in place to report missing children rapidly. we need to close the gap in our asylum system, where at present there is no duty for anyone to follow up on children who go missing. others have spoken – and my colleague just now – about the issues of the prevention and empowerment of children and young people so that they do recognise the risks. certainly the safer internet centres play an important role in also being a point of contact for children who cannot, or will not, report things to parents or teachers. i also think that there are issues here about good sex and personal relationship education, so that children understand what is really happening. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i am sure that the report that we get from the commission will help clarify why some member states are taking so long to actually implement the directive. i think that for some it is a question of whether it matches with their own particular laws, in particular where they are having to increase penalties, but like you, i find it amazing that member states have really not got their act together on this. this is absolutely a crucial thing about protection of young people and, whatever the reasons, we should be asking our colleagues in national parliaments to be raising the questions there, as well, about why this is not transposed.
mr president, while the internet has been one of europe’s most transformative assets in terms of expanding opportunities for businesses and consumers, we must accept that it has also aided the faceless criminals who prey on children online. it is therefore an area where we are right to work together to seek solutions and fight against such abuse. november 2014 saw the publication in my own constituency of northern ireland of an independent report into child sexual exploitation, compiled by kathleen marshall. this found that, in one instance, a school reported it had identified six cases of online grooming in the last four years. in another example, it found that, in a facility for vulnerable young people, the number of cases of online abuse had increased from five in 2008 to 22 in 2013. the most recent young life and times survey in northern ireland reported that a staggering one in nine 16-year-olds had experienced grooming. we really must ensure that our children are equipped to deal with the internet. but, more than that, we must ensure that the global giants who run the internet ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i am pleased, in this week of safer internet day and as an official champion of the internet watch foundation in the uk, to welcome this debate and to call for intensified efforts by the hotlines that already exist to take the imagery of child sex abuse down more quickly and to foster cooperation to ensure that the perpetrators are identified and prosecuted wherever they are in the world. last year the iwf removed 13 300 such images from the internet: a 100% increase on the previous year. at present in britain there are a series of high profile prosecutions taking place on historic cases of child sex abuse from the 1970s. this debate is a reminder that the digital age has provided new opportunities for paedophiles and abusers for abuse and grooming. what safer internet day has taught us this year is that 3 in 4 young people themselves believe they have the power to create a kinder online community. we have to give them the tools to do so.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, flogging is torture. torture is human rights abuse. blogging is free expression. freedom of expression curtailed is human rights abuse. each of the one thousand lashes against raif badawi is human rights abuse: abuse in which we must all feel the pain, and we must all act. raif’s wife, ensaf haider, told us personally that his suffering is so great that he cannot speak about it and the only words that he can utter are distress at the impact on his children. she asked us to ask for a pardon but at the same time, commissioner, for him to leave the country and to join their family. today we do so. when the european union announced, on monday, cooperation with saudi arabia on countering terrorism, we have to remember that the saudis have called raif a terrorist. if europe’s cooperation with saudi arabia is to mean anything, we have to use it to free raif. free raif. free raif.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think it is useful to remember in this house that our duty is to the people of a region, a country, a state, and not necessarily the present regime in charge of it. we have seen how quickly that can change. i count myself as a friend of saudi arabia – i grew up in riyadh, i have many happy memories of my time within the country. and it is precisely that friendship and our values that oblige us to be true to our values and to be vocal about the systematic deliberate and widespread human rights abuses going on within that country. raïf badawi – and i thank amnesty scotland for their work on his behalf – is emblematic, and that is precisely the point. he is important because the saudi authorities chose to make him important: they chose to make an example of him. it is right that we should react to his plight. but there are thousands of others, and this resolution is for all of them. i would end with a plea to our member states. as mr howitt rightly said, if our cooperation is to mean anything, we must be true to our values. my plea to the member states – not least my own, the united kingdom – is that if we think a little bit less about arms sales and a little bit more about our values, we might be taken more seriously.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank you for the attention devoted by this house to supporting the universality of human rights throughout the world. saudi arabia is an important partner for the european union and an influential political, economic, cultural and religious actor in the middle east and in the islamic world. like many in europe, we have been concerned by the punishment imposed on mr badawi by a saudi court of appeal in september last year, and by the public flogging to which he was subjected on 9 january this year. we have been closely following developments related to his case as well as the overall human rights situation in the kingdom of saudi arabia. there is no doubt that the basis and conditions of mr badawi’s sentence, as well as the nature of the punishment handed down to him, are matters of strong concern for the european union. in addition, the sentence appears overtly disproportionate. the statement issued by the spokesperson for the vice-president of the commission and january, recalling our principled position on this case, is one of many initiatives that we are taking at eu level. the european external action service has been constantly monitoring this case, including via the eu delegation in riyadh. in close coordination with eu member states, several formal and informal outreach initiatives towards the saudi authorities have been undertaken, both in capitals and locally. since the first set of 50 lashes on 9 january, further lashing has been suspended on health grounds. this is certainly a positive development and it is to be hoped that further execution of the sentence will be definitely suspended. obviously we will continue to call on our saudi partners to suspend this sentence and to review the court ruling, as we understand the case may soon be referred again to an appeal court. more broadly, we look forward to strengthening an open and frank dialogue on human rights with our saudi partners, seizing, in particular, the opportunity offered by the ongoing judicial reform process. the abolition of corporal and degrading punishment and the broader issue of freedom of expression will continue to constitute essential elements in our dialogue. let me once again assure you that we will continue to follow closely the case of mr badawi and to voice the european union’s concerns through appropriate channels.
in writing. – i strongly support the principle of this resolution. no-one should be punished for exercising their freedom of speech. furthermore, a sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment and 1000 lashes is particularly cruel and disproportionate. i note that raif badawi has various health conditions which lead to specific concerns. i have seen the text of the joint motion for a resolution. the choice of words is not ideal in some places, but the sentiment is absolutely correct. i believe that pressure must be brought to bear upon the saudi authorities.
in writing. – i and my fellow meps have strongly condemned the flogging of blogger raif badawi by the saudi arabian authorities. this is a shocking act and an assault by the saudi authorities against the freedom of expression. i am calling on the saudi government to release mr badawi immediately and to quash his conviction and sentence.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in 2011 i co-authored a successful written declaration concerning the work of the eu-funded committee on missing persons (cmp) in cyprus. today our resolution seeks to make a further specific plea related to the issue of the four mass graves in ashia / ornithi village, where it is believed that the graves of 106 individuals brutally murdered in 1974 during the invasion by turkey have been tampered with and some of the human remains exhumed and destroyed or relocated in a probable criminal attempt to conceal evidence. turkey, under numerous judgments of the echr, as the occupying power in the north of cyprus, is obliged to assist the cmp to identify all the remaining skeletal parts in order to establish clearly the cause of death. this would allow the families, after 41 years, to have closure regarding the painful loss of their loved ones. turkey must also open access to the military-controlled areas in the north of the island to locate all the burial sites, and once identity is … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, there are many similarities between cyprus and ireland: both are island nations that suffer from the legacy of partition, foreign occupation and conflict. therefore, truth and reconciliation is as important to cyprus as it is in ireland. the european court of human rights, in its judgment with regard to missing persons in cyprus, held that the turkish authorities failed to conduct an effective investigation, in violation of article 2 of the european convention on human rights. similarly, the british government also continues to violate article 2 in relation to state killings in the north of ireland, for example with regard to its involvement in the murder of the brilliant 39-year-old lawyer pat finucane, the 26th anniversary of whose death occurs today. for reconciliation to take place in cyprus, turkey must reveal the truth about the missing people and in relation to the further crime of the relocation of victims’ remains by the turkish authorities. an effective investigation into this by ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, there can be few greater personal traumas than not knowing the fate of a loved one. the committee on missing persons established 34 years ago has to date identified 568 victims from both communities. in an attempt to bring some degree of closure to relatives, friends and the communities of the 1 433 missing cypriots from both sides of the island, might i respectfully suggest that the time has come for a fresh approach to this tragic issue. i believe that cyprus needs to follow the brave south african example at the end of the apartheid regime by setting up a truly independent truth and reconciliation commission. as time goes by, the important question surrounding the fates and final resting places of so many victims must be addressed. might this be an option worth investigating through the usual diplomatic channels whilst those witnesses are still able to give answers ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i attempted to put in an oral explanation of vote with regard to the case of raïf badawi. this is a very important matter to us, and normally in this delegation we would not be voting in favour of such motions. but on this occasion we did vote in favour, because the humanitarian issue was so pressing. the difficulty is that, if we are being told we are not allowed to put in an oral explanation of vote, then we are denied the right to tell the people back in the uk why we have done what we have done.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee to investigate extensive allegations of tax fraud and tax evasion by a number of multinational corporations across the european union and the alleged role of key eu political figures in relation to same. the investigation of such serious practices is unequivocally one of the most critical inquiries of our time. in this regard, i am dissatisfied that the european parliament did not see fit to proceed with the proposed inquiry committee. an inquiry committee would have possessed the necessary legal powers to ensure that an objective, equitable and unprejudiced decision was reached. it is yet to be explored in full detail as to whether the special committee will have the requisite powers to investigate the legal loopholes which it has been maintained were deployed on a mass scale by multinationals across the european union and aided by senior eu political figures. it was with these reservations in mind, that i provided support to the creation of the special committee and both my party and my group will be monitoring this matter very closely.
in writing. — i oppose this measure; it is not possible in six months to undertake a detailed study in all 28 member states. this spends taxpayersʼ money and will serve to distract from the issues surrounding mr juncker. i suspect this also to be a precursor to an attempt to harmonise corporation tax.
in writing. - i am delighted with the establishment of this special committee. it has a remit going well beyond that which a committee of inquiry would have had as the latter is limited to looking at a violation of existing law whereas what is needed is to look at the insufficiencies of current law. a study by the s&d group concluded that the total amount lost to national exchequers from tax avoiders and tax evasion across europe is greater than the sum of all government deficits added together. if this committee can contribute in any way to addressing this problem it will have done european citizens a great service.
in writing. — i voted in favour of a special committee to look into tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. particularly following scandals such as luxleaks it is important that we understand exactly what has been happening across europe when it comes to companies, their advisers and even whole countries seemingly working hand in hand to reduce corporate tax rates to little more than 0%.
in writing. — i voted in favour of setting up a special committee to evaluate the impact of unfair tax practices across europe. recent scandals such as luxleaks have given serious need for this committee. through this new committee’s activities, the representatives of european citizens will be able to look into all cases of tax avoidance and tax evasion in europe.
in writing. — i voted in favour of setting up a special committee on tax rulings because this will allow the creation of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect to examine practice in the application of eu state aid and taxation law in relation to tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect issued by member states.
in writing. — as so often, this resolution contains plenty of text that i agree with. i utterly condemn the abuses of human rights which are going on at present in iraq and syria. the level of discrimination against various communities, including the christian minority, is completely unacceptable. this resolution, however, is about more than simple condemnation of what is happening in those countries. it suggests an international foreign policy role which i simply do not believe that the eu should have. consequently, i am abstaining on this motion.
in writing. — atrocities committed by islamic state are unspeakable and we need to do all that is in our power to stop them. tackling is will require military action and draining their financial resources, but also supporting state building and inclusive policies in the region. last but not least we need to develop an understanding of how is has been able to come into existence to make sure we can stop similar events from happening ever again. here it is important to note that the assad regime has played a crucial role in fostering the development of is. the fact that he is now painting a picture of his regime as the only alternative to terrorism is belied by the fact that in 2014, just 6% of regime air strikes targeted is. meanwhile his regime has been indiscriminately bombing civilians, as shown by recent events in the city of douma, where a barrel bomb campaign by the syrian army killed at least 18 people and caused indescribable suffering among civilians. if we want to bring an end to the humanitarian crisis in the region, we need to adopt a foreign policy that looks at the full picture. unfortunately, we are not there yet today.
in writing. — the appalling human rights abuses and violations of international humanitarian law that have been committed by is and associated terrorist groups are resulting in a growing humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq; these abuses and violations are war crimes and crimes against humanity. i condemn these acts in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. — since the beginning of the conflict in syria, almost half of the syrians have been forced to leave their homes and flee for their lives in search of safety. they are the victims of president bashar al-assad and now they are forced to live in extremely poor conditions. hundreds of thousands of iraqis share the same fate. addressing the humanitarian crisis must be a priority and urgency, as the situation is deteriorating every day, and should be part of our strategic fight against isis. it is important to achieve a de-escalation of violence as a basis for a broader political process. it is, however, even more crucial that we sever the problem from the roots, increasing pressure on the assad regime and assist iraq in advancing the political process of inclusivity that is so critical to resolve the crisis.
in writing. — i condemn in the strongest possible terms the systematic human rights violations, abuses and violations of international humanitarian law resulting from the acts committed by is and associated terrorist groups which amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity.
in writing. — the security threats posed by isis in the middle east and beyond, including europe, have been the topic of much discussion but the ongoing humanitarian crisis should not be lost within that debate. the daily atrocities committed by isis are now so widespread that the ability to document and catalogue each one is almost impossible. isis holds its territory under a reign of terror in which women are raped, children are used as soldiers, people from the lgbti community are killed, adulterers are stoned and hostages are beheaded. this same ideology is being exported across the region and only recently we have seen the barbaric murder of coptic christians in libya. hundreds of thousands of refugees have left syria and iraq, heading largely for the immediate border areas including jordan, lebanon and turkey. in the kurdistan regional of iraq there are an estimated 1.5 million refugees and internally displaced persons. recent reports suggest that it will need to find around usd 1.4 billion to finance this in 2015 alone. eu member states must do more to target development aid to help fund these costs, particularly to those governments, such as jordan and the kurdistan regional government, that are actively participating in the military fight against isis.
in writing. — the ongoing barbaric violence that we are witnessing in the middle east is appalling. the extreme violence undertaken by isis has led to a large number of civilian deaths and mass exodus of people from all walks of life. we believe that the need to continue humanitarian aid to the region is vital to ending the violence and bringing about a just ending to the terrible events unfolding in the middle east. for this reason i voted in favour of this resolution.
mr president, our energy prices are driving industries, jobs and investments out of the eu altogether, often to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, while we undermine european economies. the energy policy based on the 2008 climate change act will fail in its own terms. we are damaging our economies and, with a growing carbon leakage problem, we are increasing global emissions all the time. the commission has set unhelpful targets for emission reductions, which have meant gross over-investment in intermittent and expensive renewables. europe’s economy is slowing down, while countries like india and china are having robust economic growth, building two coal-fired power stations per week. renewables are uneconomic, expensive and intermittent. while solar energy will eventually become competitive in the near future, wind farms are hugely damaging our economies. why? the emissions savings claimed for wind turbines are overstated. they ignore the necessary gas-fired backup when the wind does not blow. the eu has forced the closure of low-cost coal-fired power stations. the commission has created an obstinate cycle of failing policies with the emission trading scheme in 2005, the back-loading mechanism and the recent market stability reserve. since 2007 the european aluminium smelting industry has closed 11 smelters out of 24. the steel industry’s production fell by 20%. 17 petroleum refineries in europe have been shut down in the last seven years, with the loss of thousands of jobs. we are destroying our economies. i do not want to see grangemouth oil refinery in my own prospective falkirk constituency close, with the loss of jobs that that would entail for scotland. we do not want to return to the dark ages.
mr president, i think it is a good start, but i had a look at one of the earlier leaked versions of the particular proposal, and one section caught my eye: ‘an energy union for research and innovation’, and in brackets: ‘needs more work’. and frankly, i think it still needs more work. there is reference in the document to storage of lng, which is no doubt important. but there is not a single mention of storage of renewable energy. if we are to be an energy union moving ever toward renewable energy, we have to find a way of storing it. pump-action hydro is one method, but we are going to have to put a significant amount of work into understanding how we can ensure that all the energy we create is either stored or used. otherwise it is wasted, and that would be a serious challenge in going forward. i also believe that right now we must prioritise the north sea grid. i think that is ready to go: it is shovel ready. if we can make significant progress on that in the coming year, i think we can actually do good. we can ensure that renewables, conventional and unconventional energy, in the uk, in the netherlands, in belgium can actually begin to contribute to certainty, and it is that certainty which will allow us to plan and turn our eyes from the east towards the west. if we can do that – and i believe this is a bright beginning – we can make a significant difference. it is a great start, but much more is yet to be done.
mr president, i welcome an energy union for europe. if we create a single market for energy then our constituents will benefit from the lowest possible energy prices that a free market can deliver. lower energy prices across europe will help our businesses compete and will create jobs. the key to energy union is interconnection. if my constituents in bristol, plymouth and gibraltar are to be enabled to purchase their energy from any supplier in the eu, we need to properly integrate the european energy market, and a properly functioning market is the best way to give every member state energy security. i want the eu to be so well connected that it does not matter if mr putin turns off the gas because we can import what we need through lng terminals and supply the whole market. once that is reality, russian gas will never be switched off because there will be no point. mr vice-president, the united kingdom joined the common market to trade. let us create a common market in energy.
in writing. – any construction is as strong as the foundations it is built on. that is why any efforts on developing an energy union need to start by modernising and upgrading our energy networks. second, a successful energy union is one that benefits our citizens. this means we need to commit to ensuring employment in the energy sector, increasing transparency on energy bills and tackling fuel poverty. it is unacceptable that in 2015 between 50 and 125 million eu citizens suffer from energy poverty, meaning they are unable to access a basic level of energy services in their homes. putting the interests of people first also means that we need to prioritise enhancing renewable energy, energy efficiency and a decarbonised economy. despite the fact that some politicians on the right, including in the uk, still chose to ignore the scientific consensus that exists among 97% of the world’s leading climate scientists, climate change is not open to discussion. in my country, 70% of people want us to do more to tackle global warming. i urge the commission to be guided by their voices and make the energy union a key tool to achieve step-change in the run-up to the paris summit.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i will also focus on greece today. i want to start by quoting the chairman of the euro group, jeroen dijsselbloem, who, only two days ago, said that you are mistaken if you think that democracy is where one election result can change the way we work in the eurozone. indeed, mr juncker, you are on record as saying that there can be no democratic choice against the european union’s treaties. now does that not tell us all we really need to know about what the eurofanatics think of democracy? is it not ironic that you are destroying democracy in its very cradle, greece? you have allowed greece to enter a currency that it should never have been in. you have removed the democratically elected prime minister when he offered his country a way out through a referendum. you have imposed austerity that has taken the people of greece to the brink, yet you still shackle this great country with economic chains. to you i say that sovereignty and democracy in greece are not yours to take. the greeks have suffered enough. the battle lines are clear. it is the forces of democracy in greece against the undemocratic forces of a european union. to the greek parliament i ask: will the 300 stand firm? and to the greek people i say: be courageous, protect your birthright, you are the creators of democracy and now you must save it. invoke the courage and spirit of your forefathers. do not buckle. do not falter. do not give in. you are the defenders of democracy now. you are the nation of homer, plato and aristotle and, if you stand your ground, you will prevail and you will be a beacon of hope to us all.
madam president, is this not an example of the contempt in which the european commission and mr draghi hold this house?
mr president, the eu no doubt thinks it succeeded last week in kicking the greek can of worms down the road. but what fundamentals will have changed in four months’ time? we will still be in the same position. in the words of the president of the commission, mr juncker, ‘there can be no democracy against the eu’s treaties’. so the democratically expressed wishes of the greek people will be denied to them once again. one might well ask how will they react to that? well, it just so happens that, about the same time as this four months’ extension of the bailout ends, the eu member states must vote unanimously to continue sanctions against russia. so the eu may well have gained four months but it has given the greek communist government an opportunity to threaten to use their veto and by so doing end sanctions against their fellow communists in russia. the eu has not so much kicked the can down the road but rather rolled the can a few hundred yards towards president putin’s panzers, inviting both greeks and russians to trample all over it, thereby conflating two of the eu’s greatest catastrophes: firstly, unwarranted neo-imperialist interference in the ukraine and, secondly, the tyranny of the collapsing euro on southern european states. the eu edges us ever closer to war with russia, while dictating to the greek people. your promise to do whatever it takes to save the euro can only end badly. i was also shocked to see that president draghi of the ecb did not even stay to hear the views of mr gualtieri, the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee responsible for the democratic scrutiny of the ecb. this shows the eu and the ecb’s total contempt for the eu parliament and any form of democratic control.
mr president, as a point of order, the contempt that mr draghi showed would never be allowed in the house of commons. if this honourable house allows the same thing here, it is outrageous. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, two days ago kluiver roa was just a young, fourteen-year-old venezuelan boy from the city of san cristobal. yesterday, while protesting against a corrupt government and a worsening economy, he was brutally shot dead by the police, and my condolences go to his family. president maduro had the audacity last year to blame the deaths of 43 protestors on hatred of the government and last week unjustly arrested the mayor of caracas, antonio ledezma, charging him with plotting to overthrow the government, and there are several other opposition politicians also jailed for similar reasons. the people of venezuela and the media are being oppressed by maduro’s government; their basic human rights are being impinged on. the european union does have a duty to stand up for venezuelan democracy – or what is left of it. the rise of the far left chavismo model based on the rotten, discredited cuban castro communist dictatorship model is a threat, in my view and my group’s, to the whole of latin america.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to relay the very genuine and heartfelt concerns expressed by applicants to the european social fund in my constituency in northern ireland. i have been contacted by a range of organisations from the voluntary community in women’s sectors who believe that they have been subject to inconsistent and non-transparent treatment by the managing authority. at the first stage of application there has been a 60% failure rate. last week i was contacted by 12 of the groups in this bracket. already over 200 people have been put on protective redundancy notice, and there is a risk to 7 000 training places. these are groups that have a proven track record in providing critical skills to disengaged and disadvantaged sections of our society. today i met with officials from the cabinet of commissioner marianne thyssen to bring this matter to her attention. i have asked her to investigate the handling of the northern ireland process within the context of article 125 sub-section 3a of the common provisions regulation, which states that selection of projects must be non-discriminatory and transparent. i am also calling on the commission to ensure that 20% of esf funding in northern ireland is targeted at the eradication of poverty and the promotion of social inclusion.
mr president, the eu has set its sights on europe 2020 targets of smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, but it is february 2015 and still we are picking a course through the debris of the 2008 crash. let me give you an example from my west midlands constituency, which has the highest growth in exports – an 11% year-on-year increase – and is england’s third-largest export region, manufacturing actual goods, not trading services. yet it has a significant skills shortage. how much more growth and productivity would there be if this problem could have been tackled locally and more quickly? what we need is less london and more local control. yet, even today, the uk government is centralising the esif funding. my region, like many others in the uk, has dynamic leadership, innovation and enterprise, but these talents can only be fully utilised if decision-making and funding powers are devolved from central government. our economies across europe are crying out for major reconfiguration and rebalancing of power between central and local government in member states. at eu level we also need to do more to involve cities and regions in policy-making if we are to demonstrate our added value to the citizens.
mr president, neither of those two previous points of order were points of order. they were speeches. so can we either keep it to points of order, or all be allowed to make a speech when we feel like it? (applause)
blue-card question. – do you know what? i listen to so much rubbish in this place, but this time it is actually coming from the mouths of women. we are equal. in my country we have had equality for the past 40 years. in ukip we do not need gender quotas because the 25% of our cohort here are one member, one vote, and that is more than any of the other parties. and you will not impose gender quotas on british companies. we are getting there without it. we absolutely refuse this and it will not happen on ukip’s watch.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, as usual, we have another lengthy report calling for the eu to do absolutely everything under the sun. these numerous eu initiatives and campaigns have not done one thing to help gender equality. but, of course, meps calling for gender equality, to stop violence against women and demanding tougher legislation on discrimination is great public relations, is it not? no one would, or could, argue with that. but the reality is that none of us here have the power to initiate anything. so what about the report in front of us? you called for positive discrimination in respect of listed companies. this is demeaning to women. we are perfectly capable of competing for positions of responsibility in business. we do not need the eu making us look inferior or weaker. then you state you want gender clauses for public procurement contracts: classic eu bureaucracy. if i want a job doing, i want it done well; i want the best company with the best plan for the best price, irrespective of how many men and women work in that company. once again, it is the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) and the eu justifying their own existence with reports that are nothing more than pie in the sky, offering no practical help to women whatsoever. (applause from the efdd group)
mr president, i would like to thank marc tarabella for this excellent report. i would also like to welcome the statement from madam jourová that the commission is going to give gender equality a priority. while i am on this subject, i think we must, all of us, the decent majority in this chamber, condemn those who have called this report rubbish – because it quite clearly is not rubbish – and those who have also called it irrelevant. this is a vital and necessary report, something that we do every year, and we really do need to make sure that we take stock every year about what is going on. let us just take women’s employment. we still have, across the eu, a gender pay gap of over 16%. on pensions, older women really suffer – women’s pensions are 39% lower than those of men and there are many other economic examples. this is not only bad for women, it is bad for europe. it is bad for our economy because we miss out on that talent. for our sake, and for the sake of europe and for the sake of women, all the decent people in this house, i know the vast majority will support mr tarabella’s report.
blue-card question.– you speak in favour of quotas. i am personally in favour of recruiting the best person for the job, be they male or female, and whatever their ethnic origin. those things do not matter to me. my concern here is this: if you end up with a quota system, what happens then with the person who does not know whether they have got their job because of their gender or whether they have got their job because of a quota? is that not the most demeaning thing of all to women?
mr president, i would like to thank marc tarabella and all colleagues for their excellent work on this report. women’s rights are a cause the eu has always advanced over the years, and it continues to be important for my country, the uk, and my constituency, the north west of england – important for both men and for women. the issue i want to highlight is empowering women in entrepreneurship. as a woman entrepreneur and a women’s rights activist, i know first hand that this is an important way to foster women’s leadership in society. the role of women in small to medium enterprises – and especially in social enterprises – is crucial for the eu 2020 goal of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, for example, in respect of new green technologies. the need for action to empower women is clear. only 31% of entrepreneurs in the eu are women, so from this chamber we must call on the commission and member states to pursue innovative policies to promote women in entrepreneurship.
mr president, i would like to thank mr tarabella for this very important report. as a member of the committee on budgets i welcome the recommendation that gender be put at the heart of our considerations on this committee. in addition, it is the case that women in the uk and the eu more widely have paid a very high price for policies since the financial crash. in the uk a study of revenue raised from tax and benefit changes showed 85% of the total of these cuts have been taken from the pockets of women. this is on top of the stagnation of the gender pay gap that pushes the goal of equal pay decades into the future. finally i am very glad that marc has emphasised the importance of addressing violence against women. fahma mohamed from bristol in my constituency, at the age of 14, has led a campaign against fgm. women across the uk and the eu have bravely fought against this practice. this is just one, severe, example of violence against women that we must stand up against. yet the uk government has failed to ratify the istanbul convention. for all these reasons we must vote for this important report tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank marc tarabella for his report. in gender equality the widest gaps tend to be in the areas of time and power. we see this every day; women are still under-represented in politics. while 36.9% of meps are women, every day we see male-dominated committees and meetings. in the uk, the labour party has pledged that half of the cabinet will be women. meanwhile, the tory-liberal democrat front bench is a sea of suits and ties, vastly dominated by men. it is labour leading the way in gender equality and political parity in the uk. ukip has announced that it intends to abolish the position of minister for women and equalities and halve maternity pay. we need to strive for gender equality right across europe, to tackle the many problems faced by women on equal pay and pensions, under-representation of women in decision-making positions, violence and in—work poverty. i urge you to support – for all women and girls and their aspirations – marc tarabella’s report. (applause)
mr president, back in britain people often ask: ‘how could things have changed so much? how have things become different? we never voted for any of this’. but now i can see, and i will be able to explain it better. hidden behind a very serious issue such as women’s rights – which is absolutely important – we have another statist or super-state power grab telling companies how many people they can employ and what kind, saying what you can do in the household and who does the chores. maybe we will have a european arrest warrant if you do not put the toilet seat down properly. this is the kind of thing that drives people mad. behind a very serious issue you paint on a bleeding heart, but behind it you are grabbing more and more power. dr martin luther king wanted to see, in his dream, people treated on the merits of their character, not on quotas. he was a true fighter for freedom, not like the weasels of the british labour party who have been here today and sold the same tissue of lies that they continue to sell constantly. they are a disgrace and they will be defeated.
mr president, while i agree that there is an onus on legislators to encourage women to enter the labour market in greater numbers, i stand fully behind the principle of merit and – importantly in the european context – the principle of subsidiarity in terms of legislation, and not the federalism that we have seen here today. we should focus on helping grassroots organisations to build capacity and skills and foster personal development. i reject completely the encroachment of this report on the right to life of the unborn child. however, i welcome the focus on the serious issue of violence against women. it is estimated by women’s aid in northern ireland that 25% of women will have suffered from violence at some stage in their life. they further estimate that 30% of these cases start during pregnancy – a truly shocking statistic. i am encouraged to hear the commission respond positively to a call for a european year on combating violence against women, but dismayed to hear of a potential delay. we must hurry to combat this abhorrent practice.
in writing.– in gender equality, the widest gaps tend to be in the areas of ʽtimeʼ and ʽpowerʼ. we see this everyday – women are still under-represented in politics. while 36.9 % of meps are female, every day we see male dominated committees and meetings. in the uk, the labour party has pledged that half of the cabinet will be female. meanwhile, the tory/liberal democrat front bench is a sea of suits and ties – vastly dominated by men. ukip has announced that it intends to abolish the position of minister for women and equalities and halve maternity pay if elected in may. we need to strive for gender equality right across europe to tackle the many problems faced by women – equal pay, violence against women, the level of women on boards, etc. this report and the monitoring done by the european institute for gender equality are invaluable – they point out to us the work that still needs to be done and how to tackle gender inequality.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, europe is dying. its people are struggling. all across this wonderful continent there are families who are finding it difficult to eat. one sees the unemployment, and one sees their children leaving, trying to find a life for themselves in a pressurised world. competition is an essential part of small and medium-sized businesses for those people to try and find work, for them to be able to have enough money in their pockets to pay their gas and electricity bills and feed their families, and so it is always welcome when you see a report undertaken by an individual like mr messerschmidt who, i know, cares about issues such as this. but unfortunately, in this chamber, in this institution, such reports will always fall on deaf ears and have no capability to achieve the goals that people want, because at the end of the day this chamber and the people working within it have rules that are effectively run by the corporations. they have the power and the influence to have preferential access to the commissioners and the parliamentarians. i have seen them swan across these buildings, both here and in brussels, where they have access to meps and put their ideas forward. they can put rules and regulations in an unelected chamber that bring in high barriers of entry for small and medium—sized businesses. it encourages corporatism, not capitalism; it encourages greed, not selflessness; it encourages the ability of people already earning millions in bonuses and large salaries to put the cost upon those who are struggling to make ends meet. this is a dangerous place where competition fails at all points, and no report such as this will achieve the goal that we need, which is to relieve the people of the poverty they are suffering in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – sir, i am grateful that you have a free mind and i am grateful that i have a free mind, but what i have seen in this chamber is large parties, such as the ppe and the socialists, voting en bloc, sometimes together but always en bloc. decisions are made by one’s party élite, and those party élites are governed by the corporates that are talking to them and their politicians back home. freedom, yes, but not freedom within one’s party.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here this evening. it is often said that competition policy should lead to a level playing field for companies, regardless of their size and regardless of their country of origin, so i am pleased this report recognises that there can be no level playing field when some firms are able to evade or aggressively avoid paying their taxes. the lux leaks scandal showed how some multinational firms were able to reduce the rates of tax they paid to almost nothing. these firms are not necessarily more efficient, but they were able to bring down their costs through purely artificial means. competition here, i would suggest, is like a 100 metre race where one competitor has to wade through treacle while the other sits in a formula one racing car. we have to take action against these impediments to competition. i am also very pleased that this report recognises where liberalisation and competition may not always be appropriate. governments must be able to provide infrastructure that is essential for growth, whether that is in education or healthcare, or indeed in quality social housing where the market has failed to deliver. there is, after all, no point in having a level playing field if all the grass on it has been torn up. finally, governments must have the freedom to act against the biggest civil challenge of our time: climate change. so i am pleased that this report will preserve governments’ ability to promote green energy projects because, frankly, there is no point in having a level playing field if the playing field is ten feet underwater. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mrs dodds, why are you actually supporting mr juncker here, who wants a cohesive programme against tax evasion, under which he wants to unify everything? also, what we are talking about here is the transatlantic trade partnership. we are also talking about press freedom. the guardian actually has off-shore trusts. do you support that? would you support the guardian having a free press or falling under these proposals?
blue-card answer.– it is good to see you in the chamber, janice, as someone else from the south east. i would say, first of all, that perhaps there is some confusion here. this report is produced by parliament, it is not produced by the commission, so this is parliament’s voice on what we think about competition. i do not know about you, but certainly i visit the small and medium—sized enterprises in our constituency very regularly and they say to me frequently that they are concerned by the practices of those multinational firms which engage in profit—shifting and, indeed, firms which engage in shifting their profits to offshore tax havens, so i hope that your party might be changing its policy in that regard as well.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i did not sign this oral question. i thought about it very carefully, and one of the reasons is that it presupposes that the criteria for classification of substances as endocrine disruptors is a simple scientific decision that everyone in the scientific community can agree with. well it is not. the author of the question attested just tonight that if the criteria for edcs had been published, the entire issue of endocrine disrupters would have been solved, and this is clearly not the case. it is simply not the case. i have just come from the meeting of the committee on the environment where mr timmermans has been extolling the virtues of impact assessments, with seemingly the majority of members agreeing with him, so i can assume that the signatories are not against impact assessments per se. i can only conclude that it is part of the ongoing campaign to oversimplify this issue by ignoring the safeguards that are already in place, not least through legislation such as reach. so what is this all about? the wording asserting that 31 substances would be banned if a blocked eu paper on hormone—mimicking chemicals had been acted upon comes straight from a document produced by the ngo pesticide action network. this pan—analysis has been challenged by many scientists. this will always be the case. sometimes scientific consensus emerges, but very rarely complete agreement. this is an ongoing discussion in the scientific community, which is divided on how best to identify and regulate endocrine—disrupters. the world health organization has acknowledged that existing data are not able to demonstrate a causal link between exposure to eds and adverse health effects. they quite clearly say that. the issue is further complicated by the different regulatory processes that exist in different pieces of sectoral legislation – a hazard—based approach in plant protection products and a risk—based approach in biocides – so we cannot even get that right. i think the commission is taking a sensible approach to this very difficult issue. i have been contacted by constituents in my region expressing concern about the potential socio—economic effects, and i do not think that those should be ignored. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– madam president, unlike mrs auken, i think industry is part of the european economy and part of our european society. industry has its views, i have my views and she has her views. they will not always be the same and clearly sometimes they conflict. many studies are available on endocrine disrupters. they have been funded in many different ways and they all come up with the same conclusion, bar one or two minor studies – namely that there is no causal link. that does not mean to say that i do not acknowledge that there may be an issue, but there is – according to the who – currently no causal link.
mr president, the commission was right to launch an impact assessment into the different options for definitions of endocrine—disrupting chemicals. we now need to ensure that the final definition is proportionate and based on the science. not all substances that have an effect on the endocrine system are endocrine disruptors. for example, many plant-based foods such as caffeine in coffee interact with the hormonal system without leading to disruption or harm. endocrine active substances should be treated like most other substances of potential concern and be subject to risk assessment in which both the hazard and the exposure are considered. rising world demand for food means that europe’s farmers are going to have to produce significantly more in the years ahead. with over 850 million people in the world who do not have enough to eat europe, with its favourable soils and climate, surely has a moral obligation to optimise agricultural output. but this cannot be realised if our farmers do not have access to an adequate range of crop protection products.
mr president, i would like to highlight the impact on trade with the russian federation, particularly road transport, caused by the ill thought—out and provocative eastern expansion of the eu. because haulage companies cannot do meaningful business with russia they now have to be supported by our taxpayers, with no end to the need for support in sight. we also now have food producers with no market to sell in. prior to the embargo, 50% of eu exports to russia were being done using land transport. the impact on huge areas of business cannot be underestimated because the little that is allowed to enter or cross russia is subject to huge extra costs, increasing the price of goods. the eu is directly responsible for these instabilities. it was a complete folly to provoke russia by the foolhardy actions of the eastern expansion and this parliament should regret its actions.
mr president, beamish is one of europe’s largest open air museums which annually entertains 650 000 visitors. it is a key local employer and a unique selling point for my constituency. in my region, the northeast of england, the cultural industry, such as beamish, employs thousands in decent jobs and offers training and volunteer opportunities to thousands more, including many disadvantaged social groups. they are a key component of our local economy. the northeast cultural partnership is trying to build on these existing successes, in part using eu erdf funding; but our uk government has blocked access to eu funding for not-for-profit cultural enterprises. this brutal blow ignores the social and economic benefits offered by europe for cultural industries, at a time when our constituencies can ill afford to turn down the opportunities for jobs and growth available.
mr president, i hope members will not be puzzled if i wish everybody a happy new year because today, the second tuesday of march, is the beginning of the annual parliamentary year under the treaty. we have an annual session which begins on the second tuesday of march. this annual session is divided into 12 monthly part-sessions which means, logically, that this week we have had one part—session finishing on the monday, and another one starting today on the tuesday. in other words, this week is actually two part—sessions of parliament, and i would ask the president and the bureau of parliament when looking at the calendar of sessions of parliament to take this into account when it calculates the number of part-sessions held in strasbourg, because it seems to me that this gives us the opportunity to adjust the number of times per year we come to strasbourg, given that this week is actually two part—sessions.
blue-card question.– mr van dalen, i appreciate the points you make. i am a little surprised that you are totally in favour of longer and larger lorries, particularly when there are really big issues around urban roads and the appropriateness of such lorries on urban roads. it is all very well in the netherlands and germany where they have adequate measures to stop longer vehicles using urban roads, but would you not agree that it would be inappropriate to extend this to all member states when those measures simply are not in place and we know how dangerous these vehicles can be on urban roads?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, for his hard work on this file. with strong support from our group he managed to neutralise the attempts to legalise cross—border use of gigaliners. legalising mega-trucks throughout europe in densely populated areas with high traffic volumes would have, we believe, devastating effects for road safety and for infrastructure investment costs and would counteract all the good efforts for a more sustainable and efficient use of transport modes. furthermore, the gains we achieved on road safety and fuel efficiency aspects are positive. the introduction of a new and safer lorry cab design, including reduced blind spots, underrun protection and health and safety within cabs, will save lives on roads, notably those of cyclists. however, we felt that these proposals had been considerably watered down. we had hoped for much more, for example for direct vision improvements, as well as for the possibility to implement those changes much sooner than from 2021 onwards. in view of the continued ban on gigaliners across borders within the eu, we are happy to support this text, although the gains on safety and workers’ rights could clearly have been bigger. for one, we do not want to see drivers having to spend unreasonable hours, including their weekly rest, in the cabs of their lorries. yet, unfortunately, this practice has become commonplace. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– mr van dalen, i think what you actually said was prejudiced advice is alright if it is well-founded. i think the simple fact is that we have a different evidence base, and the evidence base is showing disproportionate damage. you can wave your hands as much as you like, mr van dalen, but you cannot hide from the truth. the disproportionate damage is being caused to our infrastructure, to our roads, by heavy trucks. in my life i have driven lorries, and i am telling you that is the case.
blue-card question.– i listened to your speech with great interest; it is very interesting that you say how important these trucks are in your country. would you agree with me that perhaps this is one perfect example of when rules and regulations that come out from a superbody like this, a superstate if you like, across the eu, cannot possibly fit and suit everyone within it, and that is why national governments surely are the best people to make these decisions.
mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, jörg leichtfried. he has managed to keep unwarranted hysteria to a minimum, certainly on this issue of mega trucks. firstly, my delegation had a number of key political objectives. one was to ensure that the uk would retain the right to determine the use of mega trucks on british roads. just for clarification, this has been established. so the agreement to operate cross-border is, in my view, as it should be. that should be determined; this is subsidiarity and that again has been the conclusion that has been reached. so i support my swedish, dutch and other colleagues too. it is not for me to determine what they choose to do in their member state. secondly, we were also successful in retaining the existing right of trucks which are higher than the permitted 4 metres to operate between the uk and the republic of ireland, thus protecting our local hauliers. finally, in terms of safer cab design, we did successfully reach an agreement whereby new, safer and more streamlined cab design in lorries will be introduced following the commission proposal on type-approval legislation which will be coming in the near future. so this will give our manufacturers sufficient time to improve those designs and this should eventually lead to safer vehicles, reducing the risk of death and injury to pedestrians and cyclists. so once again i would like to thank mr leichtfried. the ecr will supporting him in the vote today. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– yes, we agree on many things and, yes, of course we support a single market. however, there are occasions when member states need to determine what is best for them. i come from an island; it is not quite the same as crossing these great areas of mainland europe. we determine again points raised by mr van dalen and others. these trucks have been in use for a long time and they should be allowed to continue along those lines. but in terms of where we are, we have made a decision that they are not appropriate – certainly on british roads – and that is where we are. so thank you for your intervention.
mr president, once again the eu is driving towards a one—size—fits—all 28 member states directive that will be totally unworkable. i refer to the size and weight of mega trucks, of longer and heavier vehicles. the fact that this issue has remained unresolved from when directive 96/53/ec entered into force in 1996 shows how unworkable this issue is. vehicles of a size laid down in that directive create certain undeniable and fundamental issues which have not been addressed, such as the unsuitability of some highways infrastructure in certain member states. more fundamental are the safety issues raised. while trials with longer and heavier trucks are carried out in some member states, the eu talks about safety improvements and aerodynamic optimisation, but no realistic solution is found. this issue should be up to member states to decide, especially where their trucks are more suitable. the cost of upgrading roads to cope with these vehicles and for repairing the damage they cause would amount to billions. who would pay? the taxpayer, of course! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i would just like to ask our colleague if she actually understands where we got to in the trialogue, because from what she said she has clearly been absent from the discussions.
blue-card answer. – yes, i clearly understand where we are going.
mr president, this has been an excellent debate, and the fact that there have been a number of blue cards shows that the issues are complicated and often politically difficult. but when we talk about evidence we should bear in mind that hgvs have a higher mortality rate per billion kilometres travelled than other vehicles and that most of those killed in hgv accidents are other road users, not drivers. obviously not all freight can be carried by rail but, for me, safety must be absolutely critical. so i welcome the reviews that will come as a result of this measure. i would say that subsidiarity may have to take a back seat in the future for built-up areas, because unfortunately we cannot all follow what colleagues have highlighted in the netherlands and the measures are not being taken in built-up areas that should be taken to protect other road users from hgvs. in london alone, four cyclists have been killed by lorries since the beginning of the year and this is something that is becoming a very major issue on our roads. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– mr lundgren, thank you for that question. i was emphasising in my speech that i was talking about mainly policies on hgvs in general across the board, not just mega trucks. i do accept that there are difficult issues involved regarding the balance between environmentally-friendly trucks and moving freight, and all of the other issues that we have been discussing. so i take your point; i am just saying that we have not got the balance right in built—up urban areas and that is something that needs further action and, probably at this stage, community—wide action.
mr president, it has been really good for me, as someone who respects and enjoys national sovereignties and all the diverse, different countries that are represented here, to see people speaking often on behalf of their own countries and highlighting the differences between the different structures and frameworks in those countries. it brings home to someone like me, with my own view about national sovereignty, that really, surely, it is always better for the local authorities, free of guidelines from here, always to make the decisions about what is best for their infrastructure, best for their economy and best for their people. it is so nice to see some people here delighted that they have negotiated a little bit of freedom – ‘oh, we are not going to have this imposed, have we not done well?’ well, the truth is – and this is something the british conservatives need to understand – that if we were not here in the first place, we would not have to worry about that. but i wish you all in your own countries great success with this, and let us hope that all our economies boom.
in writing.– far too many lives have been lost on our roads due to unsafe lorry designs. heavy goods vehicles (hgvs) are involved in nearly a quarter of all cycling fatalities in the uk but make up less than 5 % of road traffic. this cannot continue. relaxing length restrictions for lorries in the eu will enable lorry manufacturers to design safer and more aerodynamic vehicles, including through rounded cab fronts, crumple zones and improved visibility. these are small changes but they will make an enormous difference to safety on our roads. the commission has been tasked with coming up with details of the safer design requirements by the end of 2016. this could see the introduction of safer lorries by 2020 if the legislation is fast-tracked through the eu decision-making process. the pressure now has to be kept up to ensure that these safer designs are proposed and implemented as soon as possible.
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting. you always do, and with good grace, so i thank you for that. your speech is very much about state capital and public investment. i wonder whether you would agree – i know you have some critique of private profits and the drive for it – that, without private wealth creation and private profit, the very funds that you are looking for to invest outwards from the state surely would not exist. would you not agree with me that perhaps we need to encourage private wealth creation as well, maybe with lower taxes in some areas?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, there is an english poet, by the name of joseph addison, who once said ‘the fear of death often proves mortal, and sets people on methods to save their lives, which infallibly destroy them’. well, fear stalks this chamber – fear that greece may leave and bring the euro down, and fear that low growth across the economy may make people see that the european union is a failure after all and that it is a bad idea whose time has passed. so this fear has set the eu on a system of creating something that i believe will eventually help to destroy it, namely the long-term investment fund strategy. there is – seemingly – a belief in this chamber that central bankers can steer economics – and do so as well – hence the reason that the ecb is allowing quantitative easing, which will eventually make people poorer and also ensure that you pay more in the future for what you are paying now. when we look at our phones, most of us will not say that governments should design or make phones. our computers should not be designed by our own governments or parliamentarians, but here in this chamber there seems to be an idea that parliamentarians and commissioners can create pension funds and be private equity investors. that is what this particular product is all about. let me tell you all that there are many talented people in the investment world who have failed, and you will fail once more yourselves.
mr president, long-term investment funds (eltifs) will be vital in channelling savings towards long—term investment projects. in particular, infrastructure and the link with investments under horizon 2020 are a really positive step. for me, it is important that funds should be targeted towards projects to create jobs and growth, the real economy. therefore, it is a pity that the council did not support parliament’s request for 60% of investments to go to european projects and there are not greater measures to protect the retail investors willing to invest in eltifs for a longer term. eltifs are also an important element mentioned in the commission’s green paper on cmu, and we urgently need to develop and boost the right tools to stimulate financing of the european economy. one of the priorities of cmu in this respect is the revitalisation of the securitisation market. however, it must be clear that there should be full standardisation, transparency, adequate capital requirements and clear information to investors on the credit risk. i would like to congratulate alain lamassoure and the italian presidency. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of poland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns, e.g. when a large company shuts down or a factory is moved to outside the eu, or the global financial and economic crisis. negotiations on the renewal of the fund concluded under the multiannual financial framework agreement and a new egf regulation is now in place. there are six egf applications to be voted on from poland, germany and belgium. the ecr is opposed in principle to the use of this fund and voted against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i am against the use of these funds as they do not respect the principle of subsidiarity. unemployment benefit, training and education are member state competencies. it is not up to the european union to pay redundancy money when businesses close.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the olbrycht report on the european globalisation adjustment fund because it fully complies with the eligibility criteria laid down in the egaf regulation. i welcome that the egaf funding of eur 115 205 shall contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 50 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to offer assistance in the kujawsko-pomorskie province, poland, following 615 redundancies in zaklady chemiczne zachem. the funding of eur 115 205 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 50 redundant workers into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. the redundancies in zachem were unforeseen because of the suddenness of the increase in market supply of its flagship product tdi (toluene di-isocyanate). the surplus supply of 30%, as a result of investments undertaken in other parts of the world to benefit from economies of scale and to further integrate the supply chain, enabled these producers to manufacture at a lower average cost. this together with low transport costs resulted in zachem’s inability to compete in this environment. as far as the second source of revenue is concerned, the manufacture of ech (epichlorohydrin), its sale became unprofitable for the group due to the increase by around 160% of the prices of its raw material propylene. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded will be aimed at the 50 most disadvantaged persons and will include the following two measures: hiring incentives and intervention works.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation with the exception of two where the number of employees is lower than that specified in the regulation. there is a precedent for this and parliament supports their applications.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for application egf/2013/009. zachem poland has been granted egf aid to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant from zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, linked to the discontinuation of production and the corporate reorganisation of zachem, located in kujawsko-pomorskie province. the 615 redundancies are linked to a decline in the european unionʼs market share of the chemical industry. the polish authorities argue that the impact of globalisation has been worsened by the effect of the financial crisis. zachem was the biggest employer in the region and that in the given reference period, the workers dismissed directly or indirectly from zachem amounted to 60 % of all newly registered unemployed persons in the district employment office in bydgoszcz. the eur 115 205 of egf aid will pay for personalised services to support the reintegration of the affected workers into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers receive none of this support therefore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will mobilise resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of germany, but i am not best placed to judge. i have an additional concern in this case, as it appears that the workers may not have actually been made redundant when the company was taken over. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns, e.g. when a large company shuts down or a factory is moved to outside the eu, or the global financial and economic crisis. negotiations on the renewal of the fund concluded under the multiannual financial framework agreement and a new egf regulation is now in place. there are six egf applications to be voted on from poland, germany and belgium. the ecr is opposed in principle to the use of this fund and voted against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the hoffmann report on the european globalisation adjustment fund because it fully complies with the eligibility criteria laid down in the egaf regulation. i welcome that the the egaf funding of eur 1 094 760 shall contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 476 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to offer assistance in germany, in the area of prenzlau in the german federal state of brandenburg, following 657 redundancies at two sites of aleo solar ag, operating in the solar module manufacturing sector. the funding of eur 1 094 760 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 476 redundant workers into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers back into the labour market who have been made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. aleo solar in 2010 had a turnover of eur 550 million and a profit of eur 43 million; this declined rapidly from 2011, and by 2013 had reached losses of eur 92 million. despite various efforts to restructure and improve efficiency, it did not manage to return to profitability, and went into liquidation and closed or sold off its facilities, while some other german solar companies struggling with losses moved production to the far east, e.g. malaysia. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes following measures for the reintegration of 476 redundant workers into employment: vocational training, careers advice and guidance, peer groups/workshops, entrepreneurship advice, inter-regional advice for mobility, job search by a professional job searcher, follow-up mentoring for workers who have found a new job but might need advice to secure this job or because it involves resettling, a training allowance of 60% of the worker's previous net income.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation with the exception of two where the number of employees is lower than that specified in the regulation. there is a precedent for this and parliament supports their applications.
in writing. ‒ thanks to todayʼs vote germany was granted aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant from aleo solar ag, a company operating in the nace 2 division 26 ʽmanufacturing of computer, electronic and optical productsʼ. the 657 redundancies, during and after the reference period from 7 march 2014 to 7 july 2014, are linked to a decline in the european unionʼs market share in solar module companies. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes the following measures for the reintegration of 476 redundant workers into employment: vocational training, careers advice and guidance, peer groups/workshops, entrepreneurship advice, inter-regional advice for mobility and job search by a professional job searcher. the egf will mobilise a total amount of eur 1 094 760 for germany. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers receive none of this support therefore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will mobilise resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of belgium, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns, e.g. when a large company shuts down or a factory is moved to outside the eu, or the global financial and economic crisis. negotiations on the renewal of the fund concluded under the multiannual financial framework agreement and a new egf regulation is now in place. there are six egf applications to be voted on from poland, germany and belgium. the ecr is opposed in principle to the use of this fund and voted against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the plenkovic report on the european globalisation adjustment fund because it fully complies with the eligibility criteria laid down in the egaf regulation. i welcome that the egf funding of eur 981 956 shall contribute to the coordinated package of personalised services for the reintegration of 701 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to offer assistance in belgium, following 708 redundancies in the enterprises duferco belgium sa and nlmk la louvière sa operating in the steel sector the funding of eur 981 956 will contribute to the coordinated package of personalised services for the reintegration of 701 redundant workers into employment. the package includes measures such as individual job-search assistance, general information services, training, retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers into the labour market who have been made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. according to data referred to by the belgian authorities, the sector of the production of steel has undergone serious economic disruption, in particular a rapid decline of the eu’s market share. moreover, the effects of these changes in trade patterns have been worsened by other factors such as a decrease in demand in steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu as a consequence of the economic crisis and a relative increase of production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.). these factors have harmed the competiveness of the eu’s steel industry and have led to a high number of job losses in the steel sector in recent years. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes following measures for the reintegration of 701 redundant workers into employment: individual job-search assistance, case management and general information services, training and retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation with the exception of two where the number of employees is lower than that specified in the regulation. there is a precedent for this and parliament supports their applications.
in writing. ‒ thanks to todayʼs vote belgium was granted aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant from duferco and nlmk, operating in the nace 2 division 24 ʽmanufacturing of basic metalsʼ, both located in la louvière in the hainaut region. the financial contribution requested from the egf amounts to eur 981 956 and it will go towards the coordinated package of personalised services which is to be co-funded. this includes the following measures for the reintegration of 701 redundant workers into employment: individual job-search assistance, case management and general information services, training and retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers receive none of this support therefore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will mobilise resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of belgium, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the egf helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns, e.g. when a large company shuts down or a factory is moved to outside the eu, or the global financial and economic crisis. negotiations on the renewal of the fund concluded under the multiannual financial framework agreement and a new egf regulation is now in place. there are six egf applications to be voted on from poland, germany and belgium. the ecr is opposed in principle to the use of this fund and voted against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the negrescu report on the european globalisation adjustment fund because it fully complies with the eligibility criteria laid down in the egaf regulation. i welcome the fact that the egf funding of eur 1 591 486 will contribute to the costs of measures for the reintegration of 910 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to offer assistance in belgium following 1 285 redundancies at arcelormittal. the funding of eur 1 591 486 will contribute to the costs of measures for the reintegration of 910 redundant workers into employment. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded covers three main areas: redeployment, training, and promotion of entrepreneurship (including support for enterprise creation and collective projects). the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market who have been made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal and welcome that the resolution ‘stresses the need for an efficient and coordinated approach at union level in order to reverse the decrease in competitiveness of the union’s steel sector; emphasises the need for proper and targeted investments with the aim of ensuring innovation as the main driver for global competitiveness of the union’s steel sector and a guarantee of keeping the jobs in europe’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation with the exception of two where the number of employees is lower than that specified in the regulation. there is a precedent for this and parliament supports their applications.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for application egf/2014/012. belgium submitted their application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1 285 redundancies at arcelormittal liège s.a. the company operates in the nace 2 division 24 ʽmanufacture of basic metalsʼ and the redundancies are linked to serious economic disruption, in particular a rapid decline in the union’s market share. this is the third application to be examined under the 2015 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 591 486 from the egf for belgium. it concerns 752 redundancies in the reference period from 1 january 2014 to 1 may 2014 and 533 after that period. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded covers three main areas: redeployment, training and retraining, and promotion of entrepreneurship. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers receive none of this support therefore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will mobilise resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of belgium, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns, e.g. when a large company shuts down or a factory is moved to outside the eu, or the global financial and economic crisis. negotiations on the renewal of the fund concluded under the multiannual financial framework agreement and a new egf regulation is now in place. there are six egf applications to be voted on from poland, germany and belgium. the ecr is opposed in principle to the use of this fund and voted against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the jäätteenmäki report on the european globalisation adjustment fund because it sufficiently complies with the eligibility criteria laid down in the egaf regulation. i welcome the support provided to reintegrating into employment redundant workers who have fallen victim to major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to offer assistance in belgium, following 1 030 redundancies at caterpillar belgium s.a. the funding of eur 1 222 854 will contribute to the assistance package of services for the reintegration of redundant workers into employment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market which have been made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. according to data referred to by the belgian authorities, caterpillar’s production sites are located close to their markets, which explains the link between the european and global market developments and the reduction in workforce at the site in gosselies. since 2007, the caterpillar group has established plants in emerging economies in asia and latin america, and its growth is mainly linked to these markets. in particular, asia’s share of caterpillar’s sales has more than doubled between 2007 and 2013. this is linked to the overall growth of the asian economies, especially in china and india, and the construction industry in these countries. on the other hand, the main market for caterpillar gosselies, the european union, is depending on public and private investments in infrastructure in europe which have recently been reduced. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded covers three main areas: redeployment, training and retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation with the exception of two where the number of employees is lower than that specified in the regulation. there is a precedent for this and parliament supports their applications.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for application egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar. caterpillar belgium s.a. has been granted egf aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers following 1 030 redundancies at caterpillar belgium s.a. linked to a decline in demand in europe. of those affected, 630 are expected to participate in the measures. the redundancies at caterpillar are expected to have huge negative impacts on the charleroi region, which is facing a very difficult labour market situation due to its over-reliance on traditional industrial employment and lack of new industries. it should be noted that 18 % of the targeted redundant workers expected to participate in the measures are threatened by labour market exclusion as they are part of the 55-64 age group. a total amount of eur 1 222 854 will be mobilised from the egf for belgium. the coordinated package of personalised services has been drawn up in consultation with the targeted beneficiaries and the social partners, taking into consideration the potential of the area and the business environment. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers receive none of this support therefore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will mobilise resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i oppose this measure, as it appears to be further eu standardisation which will be against the interests of business.
in writing. ‒ the uk had a number of key political objectives. firstly, it was vital to ensure that the uk would retain the right to veto the entry of any so-called 60 tonne/80 foot long ʽmegatrucksʼ onto british roads. this has been secured, and such ʽmegatrucksʼ will only be permitted to operate across borders where there are bilateral agreements between member states. secondly, we were successful in retaining the existing right of trucks, higher than the permitted 4 metres, to operate between the uk and the republic of ireland. finally, in terms of safer cab design, we successfully reached an agreement whereby new, safer, and more streamlined cab design in lorries will be introduced, following the agreement on the forthcoming commission proposal on ‘type-approval’ legislation for lorries. this will give manufacturers a sufficient timeframe to improve their designs, which should eventually lead to safer vehicles, reducing the risk of death and injury to pedestrians and cyclists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of new rules on truck weights and design which will improve safety for drivers and other road users in wales. i was opposed to the introduction of the huge ʽgigalinersʼ, which would be unacceptable on roads in wales. they raise major safety and infrastructure concerns, as well as undermining the use of more environmentally-friendly rail for freight, for which we are working in wales. i welcome the fact that gigaliners are not included in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the leichtfried report because i welcome the fact that the new directive would promote the use of alternative power-trains and aerodynamic flaps and cabs, thus contributing to reductions in co2 emissions, fuel savings and road safety. it is also crucial that this new legislation would not prevent more extensive road safety measures on safer lorries at local or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which amends general circulation directive 96/53/ec, setting maximum weights and dimensions for vehicles circulating in the eu. it is aimed at authorising longer lorries, moreover it authorises new technologies for weight checks on vehicles in order to meet new diesel standards. i am also in favour of more extensive road safety measures on safer lorries at local and regional levels.
in writing. ‒ this legislation will go some way to making europe’s roads safer, particularly for cyclists, and i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive as it is much stronger than the weak proposal put forward by the commission. all sectors should contribute to the transition to a sustainable economy and to an energy union. heavy goods vehicles are responsible for about 26 % of road-transport co2 emissions in europe and their fuel efficiency has hardly improved over the last 20 years. i regret that the transport ministers insisted on delaying the introduction of the safer truck cabins until at least 2020. this directive however limits the size and weight of trucks on eu roads and promotes combined road-rail or road-ship transport operations for standard 45-foot containers.
in writing. ‒ i welcome parliament adding to the legislative resolution the following ‘infringements in relation to overloaded vehicles need to be addressed adequately by member states in order to avoid any distortions of competition and to ensure road safety’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as this new legislation will not prevent more extensive road-safety measures on safer lorries at local/regional level.
in writing. ‒ labour meps today voted in favour of eu rules on large vehicles to encourage greener and safer buses, trucks and lorries. this proposal amends general circulation directive 96/53/ec which sets maximum weights and dimensions for vehicles circulating in the eu. it will authorise longer lorries which is said to be justified on environmental grounds. extra length on lorries would allow more aerodynamically designed cabs and rear flaps. it must be stressed that the new legislation will not prevent more extensive road—safety measures on safer lorries at local/regional level. labour meps will continue to call for further action at eu level to improve vehicle safety and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on maximum weights and dimensions for vehicles circulating within the eu. in particular, the provisions amend the design of longer lorries, which will have a positive environmental impact and increase safety for drivers and pedestrians.
in writing. ‒ in order to protect the safety and health of my london constituents, it is important that we utilise the technological developments available to us in order to create safer road traffic vehicles. developing safer road traffic vehicles will reduce the risk of death and injury to cyclists and pedestrians. thus, i am happy that the proposal amending the existing directive on the maximum authorised weights and dimensions of road traffic vehicles has passed. i am also pleased with the fact that the important political objectives i felt were necessary to protect the safety of uk citizens were included in the final piece of legislation. first, it was vital that the uk is allowed to retain the right to veto the entry of so-called ʽmegatrucksʼ onto british roads. secondly, i am proud we were successful in retaining the existing rights of trucks higher than 4 metres to operate between the uk and the republic of ireland. the acceptance of these uk objectives into the amendment shows that the eu views the uk as an important member whose concerns it takes seriously. i am delighted that parliament has listened to, acknowledged, and accepted the worries my nation had about this proposal, and allowed the uk to protect itself from these worries
in writing. ‒ i voted alongside my socialist colleagues in favour of this resolution because we have set the framework for greener and safer truck cabins. these cabins will not only reduce co2 emissions through improved aerodynamics, but they will allow for a wider field of vision through the installation of bigger windshields, thus improving safety for drivers.
in writing. ‒ i voted alongside my socialist colleagues in favour of this resolution because we have set the framework for greener and safer truck cabins. these cabins will not only reduce co2 emissions through improved aerodynamics, but they will allow for a wider field of vision through the installation of bigger windshields, thus improving safety for drivers.
in writing. – i voted against this report. the core idea that european long-term investment funds (eltifs) would support social and environmentally sustainable investments is a positive one. however, the commission has failed to table adequate provisions in relation to this. the commission’s proposal aims to provide investors with guaranteed security if investing long—term in infrastructure, education, the health industry or housing. the shadow rapporteurs equitable and exhaustive amendments were not included in the compromises, despite being focused on sustainable and viable alternatives. my party are seeking improvements for the real economy and we will not endorse proposals which are designed to benefit certain vested financial interests. moreover, related to this report is the commission’s recent green paper on long-term financing of the european economy. i have a number of concerns with this green paper. it needs to be reiterated that the lack of bank lending is primarily because of austerity policies which eradicated credit demand as opposed to the repetitive claim that the problem is over-regulation of banks. the lack of investment is to do with austerity policies and the introduction of a capital markets union will have no tangible benefit if it is not combined with a rejection of austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ this appears to extend the remit and authority of the esma; it is therefore consistent for a ukip mep to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the proposal is to try and boost non-bank investment in the real economy across europe. this was the first initiative of the capital markets union before it became the cmu (the eltif negotiations began in the previous mandate). i am generally happy with the political outcome, although whether there will be uptake for these funds will have to be seen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european long-term investment funds because eltif can play a vital role in channelling savings towards long-term investments projects, in particular infrastructure, and the link with investments under horizon 2020 is a crucial one. most importantly, eltif should target funds towards projects to create jobs and growth. this will only be possible if we develop the right tools to stimulate market financing of the european economy. one of the priorities of the capital market union in this respect is the revitalisation of the securitisation market. however, it must be clear that full standardisation, transparency, adequate capital requirements and clear information to investors on the credit risk should be key principles of all new legislation in this field. i congratulate the rapporteur and the three institutions who showed political will on all sides to find a solution on this file. i hope the current president in council will show the same will for money market funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contains a proposal for a new type of collective investment framework. this will allow investors to put their money into companies and projects that need long-term capital. these long-term investment funds are designed to increase the amount of non-bank finance available for companies investing in the real economy of the european union and offer investors more opportunities and the necessary protection to participate in investment schemes in europe, thereby making more investment capital available.
in writing. ‒ european long-term investment funds will provide a useful tool in boosting europe’s economy and i therefore voted for this report. importantly, the legislation specifically recognises the importance of investments which have a social benefit, such as education. it is to be hoped that the eltifs are used for progressive purposes – and thereby undermine arguments that progressive politics amounts to a ‘something for nothing’ culture.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as these funds could drive growth in the long-run by delivering infrastructure, intellectual property and research results, and by fostering the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution. long-term finance is a crucial enabling tool for putting the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in accordance with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment, and competitiveness for building tomorrow’s economy in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and is more resilient. european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide finance to various infrastructure projects, unlisted companies, or listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) of lasting duration that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. by providing finance to such projects, eltifs contribute to the financing of the union’s real economy and the implementation of its policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i believe that european long-term investment funds will help to increase the amount of non-bank finance available for companies investing in the real economy in the european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted alongside the socialists and democrats group in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds (eltifs). the proposal is for a new type of collective investment framework allowing investors to put money into companies and projects that need long-term capital. eltifs are designed to increase the amount of non-bank finance available for companies investing in the real economy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a collective investment framework. the proposed european long-term investment funds (eltifs) would increase the amount of non-bank finance that is available for investing in companies, which would in turn promote investment in the real economy of the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. the situation to date has been that interchange fees for card-based payments, paid by the merchantʼs bank to the bank that issued the card, have not been transparent and they differ between eu countries, where they are subject in some cases to legislation and in others to decisions by national competition authorities. the positive vote means in practice that cross-border debit card transaction fees will now be capped at 0.2 % of the transaction value. for credit card transactions, a fee cap of 0.3 % of the transaction value will apply. member states, including ireland, can decide to impose a lower cap if they so wish. these changes will be a positive development for customers and for irish businesses operating on a cross-border basis. during discussions at preparatory meetings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs my colleague matt carthy urged that the issue of cross-border transactions be included in any caps as this is particularly important in an irish context where we need to break down all barriers in order to create an effective all-ireland economy.
in writing. ‒ the idea of capping fees for card-based payments may be a noble one, but the law of unintended consequences applies here. companies will simply find other ways to get their money, and consumers will be charged regardless.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the proposed caps on credit and debit card interchange fees are projected to save british business gbp 480 million. the caps mean that the costs of doing business will come down – and prices should fall too. this is exactly the kind of thing we should be tackling at a european level, and it shows what we can achieve when all 28 eu countries work together. it is clear that technology can often make the world easier: you can take a small piece of plastic with you on holiday and take money out of a spanish atm or pay for dinner in an italian restaurant. but it can make the world less transparent as well, if we are not careful – we do not always know whether it is working in our interests. that is why i was pleased to vote for this measure which stands up against vested interests, and which is for the benefit of british businesses and british families. thanks to this new law, uk shoppersʼ lives will be a little clearer, a little fairer and a lot cheaper.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this step to cap the fees that businesses and consumers may have to pay when they use their debit or credit card domestically or in a cross-border transaction. this is a move that goes some way to giving local consumers and businesses with the potential to expand in eu markets an incentive, and the capacity, to explore opportunities presented by e-commerce. it is right and proper that these transactions are secure, competitive and free of barriers in order to instil confidence in those enterprises and consumers that want embrace these new technologies and drive growth as a result. it is somewhat disheartening, however, in light of this positive and democratic decision to cap fees in this way, that the council of ministers have seen fit to delay the total abolition of costly mobile roaming charges across europe until 2018. this overturns the decision reached by those in this parliament, and serves to add further distress to those living in the border counties of my constituency, northern ireland, who face exorbitant charges as a result of this barrier. it is high time that national governments wake up to this reality.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns payments called multilateral interchange fees or mifs, which are charges during transactions between the merchantʼs and the buyer’s banks. it sets maximum fee levels for transactions with payment cards that are used by consumers at 0.2 per cent for debit card transactions and 0.3 per cent for credit card transactions. for domestic transactions member states can define a per transaction cap fee of less than 0.2 per cent or apply a per transaction fee of no more than 0.05 eur/equivalent. there are also transparency measures for retailers and consumers to make more informed decisions about possible charges. commercial cards are excluded from the scope as are payment cards issued by three party payment schemes. reducing charges for using your card abroad is something i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a cap on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. visa and mastercard have an effective duopoly in this market. as competition is so limited i believe that regulation can be justified. at present small businesses face an unknown fee when a customer uses a card. this is unfair. a cap on fees will benefit every business that accepts card payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multilateral interchange fees regulation because it will bring down costs for both consumers and retailers. for far too long, card schemes and banks have been able to increase the fees that we are all charged when we use our debit and credit cards, without any competition to bring these prices down. by imposing a clear maximum cap for debit and credit card transactions, this regulation will change that, and should make the purchases we make cheaper and the fees we are charged more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased to have voted for a cap on credit and debit card transaction fees, which will save british business an estimated gbp 480 million a year. for debit cards, this cap will be at 0.2 % of the overall value of the transaction, and for credit cards it will be 0.3 %. currently british shopkeepers are having to pay up to six times that amount in order to process credit card transactions; the difference this will make is huge. in fact, the new rules are expected to benefit british business by a staggering gbp 480 million a year. those savings will go directly to shopkeepers and retailers, who in turn can pass them on to consumers. the regulation contains several other measures designed to improve the functioning of this market as transparency requirements, and to strengthen consumer protection provisions. these provisions will bring down the cost of doing business, and make shoppersʼ lives clearer, fairer and cheaper.
in writing. ‒ as with the mobile phone operators, the duopoly of mastercard and visa have had consumers over a barrel for years and have shown an unwillingness to charge fair fees. the eu is right to step in to legislate in this area and today’s vote is a victory for europe’s consumers and smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation as it will bring down costs for both consumers and retailers. for far too long card schemes and banks have been able to increase the fees that we are all charged when we use our debit and credit cards, without any competition to bring these prices down. this regulation will change that, and should make the purchases we make cheaper and the fees we are charged more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal, which i regard as good for consumers and good for business, particularly small businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the regulation is both consumer and business—friendly as it will bring down costs for consumers and retailers. for far too long, card schemes and banks have been able to increase the fees that we are all charged when we use our debit and credit cards, without any competition to bring these prices down. the regulation will change that, and should make the purchases we make cheaper and the fees we are charged more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multilateral interchange fees regulation because it will bring down costs for both consumers and retailers. the cap on credit and debit card transaction fees will save british business an estimated gbp 480 million a year and will make shoppersʼ lives a little clearer, a little fairer and a lot cheaper. the caps will be applied from six months after the regulation comes into force and the rest of the measures will start to be applied after 12 months. we support the measures to cap credit card transaction fees at 0.3 % and a cap of 0.2 % for debit card transaction fees. for far too long, card schemes and banks have been able to increase the fees that we are all charged when we use our debit and credit cards without any competition to bring these prices down.
in writing. ‒ i believe that european union citizens should not have to bear the burden of high interchange fees for card-based payment transactions, and so i voted in favour of this report. at present, card schemes and banks have the ability to increase the fees that we are charged for using our debit and credit cards, without any competition to bring these prices down. this regulation will change this, bringing more transparent fees and lower costs for both consumers and retailers.
in writing. ‒ i believe that protecting consumers from unfair bank fees is a key objective and a battle worth fighting. thus, i was happy to vote yes on the report concerning payments known as multilateral interchange fees (mifs), which are charges during transactions between merchants and the buyer’s banks. the report sets a maximum fee level for transactions with payment cards that are used by consumers at 0.2 % for debit cards and 0.3 % for credit card transactions. the report allows member states to define transaction cap fees within a certain range for domestic transactions. it also includes transparency measures for retailers, which will allow consumers to make more informed decisions about possible charges. the differences between national mifs have distorted the single market, so i have supported the objectives of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because every time we use our credit or debit card in a shop, the retailer is being charged for the privilege, the cost of which is added on to the purchases we make. it is not a transparent system as customers are not told how much of what they are paying is to cover these fees. what the european parliament labour party voted for today was to cap the fee at 0.2 % of the overall transaction amount for debit cards and at 0.3 % for credit cards. right now the fees charged are around six times as much as the capped amount will be and by saving retailers money these savings can be passed on to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because every time we use our credit or debit card in a shop, the retailer is being charged for the privilege, the cost of which is added on to the purchases we make. it is not a transparent system as customers are not told how much of what they are paying is to cover these fees. what the european parliament labour party voted for today was to cap the fee at 0.2 % of the overall transaction amount for debit cards and at 0.3 % for credit cards. right now the fees charged are around six times as much as the capped amount will be and by saving retailers money these savings can be passed on to consumers.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) application for saint-gobain sekurit in belgium, based on the intervention criteria of article 2(c) under which, in exceptional circumstances, an application may be considered admissible even if other intervention criteria are not met, given that the redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local economy. in my own constituency in the north of ireland the closure of gallahers in ballymena, which is due to shut permanently by 2017 with the loss of 877 jobs, will have a serious impact on employment and the local economy. my hope is that the egf can be mobilised in this instance to fund reintegration of these workers into the local labour market.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of belgium, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. this particular case shows the beneficial flexibility in the nature of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as the number of workers affected was below the criteria. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ in spite of the fact that the part of intervention criteria relating to the minimum number of redundancies (500) during the reference period has not been met, i voted in favour of the riada report on the mobilisation of the egaf for saint-gobin sekurit, given the significant effects of the redundancies in question. i welcome the fact that funding of eur 1 339 928 will contribute to the costs of measures for the reintegration of redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to offer assistance in belgium, following 257 redundancies at sgs benelux which manufactures safety glass for the automotive industry. the funding of eur 1 339 928 will contribute to the cost of measures for the reintegration of redundant workers into employment: individual job-search assistance, case management and general information services, training and retraining, promotion of entrepreneurship, and allowances (including the relocation allowance and recruitment incentive). the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ according to data referred to by the belgian authorities, the sector of the manufacture of safety glass for the automotive industry has undergone serious economic disruption as a result of several factors, such as a decrease in the production of automotive safety glass in the eu, an increase of the market shares of competitors from non-eu countries and an increase in imports of these products into the eu. sgs benelux’s activities were closely linked to production trends in the automotive industry, which saw the production of passenger cars decrease from 21.9 million units to 19.5 million units between 2007 and 2012, whereas, in the rest of the world, it increased from 47.5 million units to 60.6 million units. moreover that there has been a general trend by manufacturers and suppliers in the automotive industry to transfer production within the eu, from western europe (in particular, france, belgium, and spain) to eastern europe. as a result, according to data provided by the belgian authorities, between 2007 and 2012, sgs benelux recorded an operating loss of eur 20.46 million. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded includes following measures for the reintegration of 257 redundant workers into employment.
in writing. ‒ thanks to todayʼs vote belgium was granted aid from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant at a plant belonging to the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group, located in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. the 257 redundancies are linked to a decline in the production of automotive safety glass in the union. the financial contribution requested from the egf amounts to eur 1 339 928. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded consists of several measures aimed at promoting the workers’ return to the labour market and helping them with administrative procedures, most of which are expected to support all the dismissed workers. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers receive none of this support therefore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will mobilise resources from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. – there are many positive aspects within this report which i would fully support. i am pleased that this report made reference to important aspects of gender equality including the worrying feminisation of poverty, the persistent gender pay gap and the importance of member states acceding to the istanbul convention on violence against women, especially considering that ireland is one of only six eu countries not to have signed this vital treaty. however, i believe that the formulation and implementation of health policies, including sensitive positions taken on abortion services, are a competence of sovereign governments and i therefore, in line with sinn féin policy on the issue, abstained on the resolution overall. sinn féin believe that in the case of rape, sexual abuse, incest, where a woman’s life is in danger, or in the case of fatal foetal abnormality the option of termination should be available. sexual and reproductive health and rights cannot be reduced to mean abortion. reproductive rights can refer to a range of services covering maternal, post-natal, menopausal, reproductive cancers and fertility treatments. it is my party’s and my own view that women should not be denied access to such services.
in writing. ‒ i support equality between men and women and therefore reluctantly abstained on a report which introduced various other unpalatable ideas: discriminatory quotas, and over-enthusiastic support for taxpayer-funded abortion. the tone of the report was such as to justify a negative vote, but given the positive nature of the subject matter i could not bring myself to vote against rather than abstain.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 32 because we oppose calling for the eu to meddle with the ukʼs immigration system regarding undocumented migrants and telling countries that they cannot report cases to the authorities. however we absolutely condemn cases where women (whether migrant or not) have been subjected to abuse and would support criminal investigations no matter what the circumstances. the eu call for cases not to be reported to the authorities may help those perpetrating such crimes to avoid being brought to justice. ukip abstained on paragraph 50 as we cannot support calling on the eu to interfere with the ukʼs immigration system regarding the right to residency. however it is perfectly reasonable for a migrant woman to be granted autonomous residency (meaning that residency is not subject to being part of the family unit she first entered with), especially in cases where the woman has been subjected to domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the tarabella report on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. this is because the report discusses many areas where urgent progress is required, and not least the need for women to be able to exercise control over their reproductive health, and for better and higher-quality access to information and services in the area of sexual and reproductive health. one of the articles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union actually obliges the eu to protect and improve health protection within europe. sexual and reproductive health are an essential element of people’s overall well-being. this is particularly relevant in the uk where there is evidence that standards of sexual health are falling and insufficient progress is being made against communicable sexually-transmitted diseases.
in writing. ‒ while there are good elements to this report, they are vastly overshadowed by a desire to violate the fundamental right to life of the unborn child. my opposition to this is not just a moral objection, but also the principle of subsidiarity. the eu has no right to instruct national governments to provide sex education in a certain way or abortion on demand. however, i welcome the focus on tackling violence against women in society, something which affects – or has affected – one in four in my constituency, northern ireland. in 30% of these cases, abuse starts during pregnancy, which is shocking. this issue needs to be tackled, and i support making 2016 a european year for combating this crime. i also support action to end the scourge of female genital mutilation, as well as the desire to see more women equipped with the skills and confidence to enter the labour market, local decision-making or to generally gain a greater stake in society. many grassroots women’s organisations already carry this work out in northern ireland, and i trust that the latest round of esf funding will respect their importance to local communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted to keep access to abortion in the report but voted against the overall report as the eu has no remit for legislating in social issues such as childcare, taxation, education and housing.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 32 because we oppose calling for the eu to meddle with the ukʼs immigration system regarding undocumented migrants and telling countries that they cannot report cases to the authorities. however we absolutely condemn cases where women (whether migrant or not) have been subjected to abuse and would support criminal investigations no matter what the circumstances. the eu call for cases not to be reported to the authorities may help those perpetrating such crimes to avoid being brought to justice. ukip abstained on paragraph 50 as we cannot support calling on the eu to interfere with the ukʼs immigration system regarding the right to residency. however it is perfectly reasonable for a migrant woman to be granted autonomous residency (meaning that residency is not subject to being part of the family unit she first entered with), especially in cases where the woman has been subjected to domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the tarabella report, which comes at a time when the advancement of gender equality, one of the eu founding values, is under severe threat. too little has been done to reach key targets in the eu strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. the result is next to no progress on mainstreaming gender into policy-making and budget procedures; weak female participation in the labour market; gaps in the enforcement of the directive on equal opportunities and treatment in employment; and a blocked maternity leave directive. sadly, the uk government seems keen to follow the eu trend. in the zero-hour contract economy set up under the current coalition government, a quarter of women are on low pay, while recent changes to legal aid for family law cases risks leaving women who have fallen victim to violence standing in the cold. i hope this report will serve as a wake-up call to the council and commission. because in 2015, equality between men and women should not be an issue that can be put before the ballot. it should be a reality.
in writing. – the uk delegation recognises that equality between men and women is essential for the advancement of society as well as contributing to economic prosperity. a just and fair society is one that includes both genders and affords the same rights to girls and boys, men and women. the uk delegation strongly believes that men and women should be paid equally for work of equal value; we strongly believe that women should have the same opportunities as men when it comes to working in male dominated fields such as engineering, science and technology. the uk delegation condemns violence against women and we have continued to speak out against fgm. the uk delegation has always supported legislative directives aimed at strengthening and protecting women’s rights (european protection order, combating human trafficking and victim's rights package) and we have a track record of supporting the daphne programme which tackles domestic violence at grass- roots level. however, the conservatives in the european parliament want to see decisions made as close as possible to people and we are concerned that this report goes way beyond this parliament’s competencies. this report extends into areas such as public procurement tenders, taxation, childcare, free healthcare, maternity and paternity leave, family reunification, sex education, abortion, gender quotas for women on company boards and political party lists and even housework.
in writing. ‒ it is appropriate that we vote on this report a few days after international women's day. progress is being made in achieving equality between men and women but statistics show that women's ambitions are still too often stifled. we should be making concerted efforts, for example, to achieve gender balance on boards not just of companies but in the public and third sectors too. unfortunately, women must still put up with misogynist behaviour such as was witnessed at last weekend’s labour party conference in scotland. these attitudes should be consigned to the past – along with the labour party in scotland.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 32 because we oppose calling for the eu to meddle with the ukʼs immigration system regarding undocumented migrants and telling countries that they cannot report cases to the authorities. however we absolutely condemn cases where women (whether migrant or not) have been subjected to abuse and would support criminal investigations no matter what the circumstances. the eu call for cases not to be reported to the authorities may help those perpetrating such crimes to avoid being brought to justice. ukip abstained on paragraph 50 as we cannot support calling on the eu to interfere with the ukʼs immigration system regarding the right to residency. however it is perfectly reasonable for a migrant woman to be granted autonomous residency (meaning that residency is not subject to being part of the family unit she first entered with), especially in cases where the woman has been subjected to domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. much still remains to be done to reduce inequality between men and women. it will take until 2034 to achieve equal pay and until 2038 for the employment rate of women to be comparable to that of men. it is high time to go beyond just words. gender equality must be an integral part of all policies of the european union. we must progress towards equality, but also allow women to balance family and professional life, promote paid paternity leave, and combat violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which calls for the eu institutions and the member states to mainstream the issues of gender, women’s rights and equal opportunities in their policy-making, budget procedures and the implementation of eu programmes and activities, by means of pro-active measures, especially in connection with stimulus packages, by carrying out gender impact analyses on a case-by-case basis.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report which outlines key priorities for the eu to enhance the participation of women in the labour market. it also states the importance of enforcing the directive dealing with equal opportunities and treatment in employment and calls on the council to state its position on the maternity leave directive, which is crucial for the advancement of gender equality in europe. the report also notes the importance of the sexual and reproductive rights of women, maintaining that the women should have full control over their bodies.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 32 because we oppose calling for the eu to meddle with the ukʼs immigration system regarding undocumented migrants and telling countries that they cannot report cases to the authorities. however we absolutely condemn cases where women (whether migrant or not) have been subjected to abuse and would support criminal investigations no matter what the circumstances. the eu call for cases not to be reported to the authorities may help those perpetrating such crimes to avoid being brought to justice. ukip abstained on paragraph 50 as we cannot support calling on the eu to interfere with the ukʼs immigration system regarding the right to residency. however it is perfectly reasonable for a migrant woman to be granted autonomous residency (meaning that residency is not subject to being part of the family unit she first entered with), especially in cases where the woman has been subjected to domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 32 because we oppose calling for the eu to meddle with the ukʼs immigration system regarding undocumented migrants and telling countries that they cannot report cases to the authorities. however we absolutely condemn cases where women (whether migrant or not) have been subjected to abuse and would support criminal investigations no matter what the circumstances. the eu call for cases not to be reported to the authorities may help those perpetrating such crimes to avoid being brought to justice. ukip abstained on paragraph 50 as we cannot support calling on the eu to interfere with the ukʼs immigration system regarding the right to residency. however it is perfectly reasonable for a migrant woman to be granted autonomous residency (meaning that residency is not subject to being part of the family unit she first entered with), especially in cases where the woman has been subjected to domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ today, labour meps and the socialists and democrats group voted in favour of the report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. this is a yearly report from the committee on womenʼs rights and gender equality to outline the advances that have been made. key priorities set out in this report include further mainstreaming of gender into policymaking and budget procedures, the urgent need to increase womenʼs participation in the labour market and enforcement of the directive dealing with equal opportunities and treatment in employment. in addition, the report highlights the need for the council to state its position on the blocked maternity leave directive.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of gender equality, and so i voted in favour of the resolution. the report sets out priorities such as the enforcement of the directive on equal opportunities and treatment in employment, and challenges the council on the blocked maternity leave directive. this will be important in promoting equality between men and women in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the committee on womenʼs rights and gender equality annually adopts a report on progress made towards achieving gender equality, with regard to the european strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. despite evidence of some progress being made, the glass ceiling is far from being shattered as europe still lags behind in several urgent areas, including gender-based violence, social exclusion and human trafficking. nonetheless, i voted with my group against the latest report. one area i stand vehemently against is the proposal of mandatory quotas for women in boardrooms which undeniably undermine the status of women. nowadays, few people disagree with the call for a stronger female representation and presence at the top of the corporate ladder. research confirms that gender diversity on boards results in stronger corporate performance on every measure and that male-dominated cultures in the top echelons of the commercial world lead to excessive risk-taking. however, if we are to talk seriously about tackling the under-representation of women in the higher ranks, rather than introducing mandatory gender quotas we should advocate the implementation of corporate policies which encourage women to step forward; demonstrating that they are just as eligible for rising through the ranks as men. this would assist in promoting women without patronising them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution alongside my european parliament labour party colleagues because this report highlights areas where urgent action is needed if we are to achieve targets on gender equality, particularly in the area of womenʼs employment. our economic recovery has been one of low wage, temporary and insecure work and this has hit women disproportionately hard. persistent gender gaps in pay and pensions demonstrate there is still a very long way to go. what was at stake here is not just womenʼs economic empowerment but our investment in europeʼs future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution alongside my european parliament labour party colleagues because this report highlights areas where urgent action is needed if we are to achieve targets on gender equality, particularly in the area of womenʼs employment, women in entrepreneurship, and sexual and reproductive rights. our economic recovery has been one of low wage, temporary and insecure work and this has hit women disproportionately hard. persistent gender gaps in pay and pensions demonstrate there is still a very long way to go. womenʼs rights to control their own bodies are a key element of achieving gender equality along with quotas for women on boards and increased visibility in public life, and have been part of the political struggle here. what was at stake was not just womenʼs economic empowerment, and our investment in europeʼs future, but also a europe of social justice.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 32 because we oppose calling for the eu to meddle with the ukʼs immigration system regarding undocumented migrants and telling countries that they cannot report cases to the authorities. however we absolutely condemn cases where women (whether migrant or not) have been subjected to abuse and would support criminal investigations no matter what the circumstances. the eu call for cases not to be reported to the authorities may help those perpetrating such crimes to avoid being brought to justice. ukip abstained on paragraph 50 as we cannot support calling on the eu to interfere with the ukʼs immigration system regarding the right to residency. however it is perfectly reasonable for a migrant woman to be granted autonomous residency (meaning that residency is not subject to being part of the family unit she first entered with), especially in cases where the woman has been subjected to domestic violence.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i believe that matters such as competition should be the preserve of the member states and therefore voted against accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on amendment 7. this is because, while i am strongly of the view that there is no need for isds provisions within trade agreements between democratic states (and have made this clear on many occasions), this report was meant to be focused on competition measures within the eu and therefore was not, in my opinion, the appropriate venue for parliament to take a decision on this issue. (in contrast, it was, in my view, appropriate to attempt to incorporate in the report a condemnation of anti-competitive measures in the field of tax, given the impact that profit-shifting by multinational companies has on the competitive prospects of small and medium-sized domestic firms).
in writing. ‒ i welcome the continued focus on ensuring that businesses and consumers across europe are given the opportunity to compete within the single market in a way that is fair. in my own constituency, northern ireland, enterprises in the construction and quarry sectors were left in a state of limbo as the commission investigated claims that the uk aggregates levy rebate scheme may have constituted illegal state aid. while the eventual outcome was a relief to those affected, we must ensure that such a situation never happens again. better clarity on the rules must be given to remove this risk. i welcome the emphasis placed on enabling greater competition in areas such as the digital market, public procurement and the supply of energy. this is crucial to driving growth, job creation, and benefits for currently disengaged groups of society, including those living in rural areas. i also commend the focus on tackling alleged state aid abuses in sport, and would particularly draw attention to previous cases involving several spanish clubs and celtic football club. regardless of the outcomes of these investigations, they have cast a shadow on the nature of financial contributions to clubs within the sport.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the essential role of competition policy enforcement for a well-functioning internal market. it highlights state-aid and services of general economic interest (sgeis), antitrust and cartels, merger control, competition in specific sectors, the international dimension of competition policy, the role of parliament, and the competition policy priorities of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy because the eu has an important role to play in making sure that companies across europe, large and small, can compete on a level playing field – while at the same time ensuring that services like healthcare are protected from a race to the bottom that comes along with privatisation. the report also showed, when referring to luxleaks, how multinational companies can act in a fundamentally anti-competitive way when they relocate and reduce their tax rates to almost nothing. we need to take action at a european level to stop that practice from happening and competition rules could be helpful here.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy because the eu has an important role to play in making sure that companies across europe, regardless of size, can compete on a level playing field - while at the same time ensuring that services like healthcare are protected from a race to the bottom that comes along with privatisation. the report also showed, when referring to luxleaks, how multinational companies can act in a fundamentally anti-competitive way when they relocate and reduce their tax rates to almost nothing. we need to take action at a european level to stop that practice from happening.
in writing. ‒ this report rightly notes the importance of free competition in the economy, as established in the treaties. that competition should not however be detrimental to social progress. the political situation in the uk unfortunately has too many parties who are opposed to social progress – the conservative, labour and liberal democratic parties all take a right-wing approach. i voted in favour of this report and hope that the people of scotland will vote against the uk’s right-wing alliance in this year’s election.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the eu has an important role to play in making sure that companies across europe, large and small, can compete on a level playing field – while at the same time ensuring that services like healthcare are protected from a race to the bottom that comes along with privatisation. the report also showed, when referring to luxleaks, how multinational companies can act in a fundamentally anti-competitive way when they relocate and reduce their tax rates to almost nothing. we need to take action at a european level to stop that practice from happening.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report’s demand that ‘eu structural funds may not be used in a way that directly or indirectly supports the relocation of services or production to other member states’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy because the eu has an important role to play in making sure that companies across europe, large and small, can compete on a level playing field – while at the same time ensuring that services like healthcare are protected from a race to the bottom that comes along with privatisation. the report also showed, when referring to luxleaks, how multinational companies can act in a fundamentally anti-competitive way when they relocate and reduce their tax rates to almost nothing. we need to take action at european level to stop that practice from happening.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report on competition policy. the european union has a vital role to play in making sure that companies across europe can compete on a level playing field. in addition, the eu must ensure that services like healthcare are protected from a race to the bottom that comes along with privatisation. in reference to the luxleaks scandal and multinational companies as a whole, companies can act in a fundamentally anti-competitive way when they relocate and reduce their tax rates to almost nothing. action must be taken at european level to stop this from happening.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on annual competition policy. the eu has an important role to play in ensuring that all companies in europe can compete on a level playing field, while protecting services such as healthcare from privatisation. the report also showed, in the case of luxleaks, that it is possible for multinational companies to act in an anti-competitive way when they relocate and can virtually escape paying tax. it is important for the eu to take action against this.
in writing. ‒ this report encourages the ecb to support ten-t; i consequently voted against it as a ukip mep. there was a case for abstaining (as the uk is not a member of the eurozone) but i did not do so because the uk is still affected by ecb actions.
in writing. ‒ while some amendments on the investment environment and financial stability of the banking union were adopted, my group abstained during the committee vote due to concerns that the report welcomes the ecb’s readiness to ‘do whatever it takes to save the euro’ and called for the ecb to explore unconventional monetary policy measures in the event of an excessively lengthy period of low inflation, which could see the ecb over-stepping its remit. for that reason i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ecb report for 2013 given that the main message of this report is that monetary policy alone is reaching its limits. i support the expansionary approach taken by the ecb, but it is crucial that the report stresses that we need to have the right policy mix of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and public and private investments. i furthermore welcome the fact that it underscores the need to have a clearer mandate as lender of last resort to foster growth and employment, instead of just price stability.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the report on the european central bank for 2013. the ecb must present an annual report each year setting out the activities of the european system of central banks and monetary policy. the report highlights the message that monetary policy alone is reaching its limits and that we need the correct combination of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and public and private investments. a clearer mandate as lender of last resort is needed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this report encourages the ecb to consider in its balance sheet expansion policy the buying of eib project bonds, which fund some of the more productive investments in the euro area, particularly from those projects chosen by the commission as having european added value after a cost-benefit analysis, especially ten-t projects in energy and transport and projects related to the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it argues that we need the right mix of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and public and private investments. in addition, monetary policy alone is reaching its limits even if we support the expansionary approach taken by the ecb.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the report on the european central bank for 2013. the ecb must present an annual report each year setting out the activities of the european system of central banks and monetary policy. the report highlights the message that monetary policy alone is reaching its limits and that we need the correct combination of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and public and private investments.
in writing. ‒ i supported this annual report on the european central bank, which contains an important overview of matters, including eu monetary policy and financial stability. such analysis is vital for the progression of the european market.
madam president, in the united kingdom we have a game show on radio 4 called just a minute in which contestants have to speak on any subject for 60 seconds without hesitation, deviation or repetition. sixty seconds is not enough to do justice to a topic there and neither is it here. but the committee on budgets discussions show that the 2016 budget will be all about repetition. this year, the european union has learned none of the lessons from last year’s elections. there is no deviation from the previous course of centralising as much money as possible in the hands of brussels and strasbourg, disregarding the ability of member states to spend their money better themselves, and the report envisages more immigration, not less. so i can say without hesitation that this is bad for britain.
madam president, i welcome the commitment to the three es in this report, in particular to employment, but i echo the comments made by my colleague jens geier on needing to reinforce the social policies of the eu. we need to see more productive, effective and forward—thinking investment, investment in industries that will secure growth and jobs, investment in our young people and, crucially, grants for cutting—edge research. with this in mind, i also welcome vice—president georgieva’s intention and commitment to assessing the outcomes of the spending of the money that we are committed to in these budgets. the eu budget does deliver positive impacts. i see this in centres of research in my region, and with that in mind, i look forward to working with colleagues here in parliament over the coming months. we need the eu budget to drive the european economy forward, competing at the cutting edge of new industries.
blue-card question.– i totally agree that taxpayers’ money is precious and must be looked after and that no fraudulent use should be made of it. but would you agree with me that there is absolutely no mandate whatsoever across europe for a european prosecutor’s office? indeed that would be taking away national sovereignty in doing so, and there is absolutely no way we could impose that. there is no mandate for that at all. do you agree?
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. a uachtaráin, go raibh míle maith agat. i'm going to the hospital. given that fraudulent irregularities in 2013 involved eur 309 million of eu funds, there is little doubt of the need to fight against fraud and other irregularities. public expenditure on defence is important, especially in the case of the defence sector. this is particularly the case now, more than ever, in the area of austerity. unfortunately, the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 represents the first cut to the eu's seven year budget in 57 years. i am pleased to see some recognition in the report of the need for administrative capacity in detecting fraudulent activity in order to detect and prevent financial irregularities and for the member states and the eu to adequately train and resource people. however, i have serious concerns regarding the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office and the parameters of its remit. the rationale for the development of an eu criminal law is to combat transnational organized crime. the intention is, of course, to be welcomed, but not at the expense of subjugating and undermining the existing judicial systems of individual member states to the interests of the eu. article 26 (1) is also particularly controversial as it could undermine both the common law system and criminal justice as a whole. go raibh míle maith agaibh all. i'm going to go to the hospital.
blue-card question.– you talk a good talk about the way in which european union funding is not always spent on the right things. can you give me just one example of anything which is currently dealt with at european union level where you feel that the funding would be better returned to member states to be spent directly by them?
madam president, can i thank the rapporteur for his report and in particular for highlighting the position regarding revenue. quite often we focus on expenditure, but i also think we should not forget the revenue collected either. although only 0.29% of our own traditional resources is subject to fraud, this does equate to around eur 61 million, and it is estimated that the eu and member states lose about eur 10 billion a year as a result of cigarette smuggling alone. when times are economically and financially difficult, i think it is absolutely vital that we get every euro we can so as to invest that money in jobs and growth. therefore, i welcome all measures taken to tackle this problem – for example, the partnership agreement with tobacco companies, the eu’s signing of the un protocol on illicit trade in tobacco, and the eu feasibility study on tracking and the tracing system for cigarettes. i hope that all these measures help us tackle this particular problem.
madam president, the report on the fight against fraud is a damning indictment of the state of the european union. on page ten of that report we see that the number of fraudulent irregularities is up by 30% since 2012. we are talking here about 1 609 incidences of fraud which cannot, must not and should not be swept under the carpet. but we still have no failure criteria and we still have no benchmarks so that, even when there is no fraud, our money could be being wasted and we would not have a clue. what is it that prevents effective reporting? is it the culture of red tape? or perhaps – as i believe – the problem is actually that it is the nature of taking decisions so far away from the citizen that causes such issues and causes them to be so difficult to highlight. when will this place recognise that brussels is just too remote from its citizens to be truly accountable?
madam president, the eu has been trying unsuccessfully to fight fraud for many years. i think it is 20 years in a row since the auditors were able to sign off the eu’s accounts. in the commercial world the fraud squad would have been called in long ago and the organisation would have been closed down. the exact amount of fraud is unknown but must run into the billions. the two biggest areas of the budget open to fraud are the cohesion fund and the common agricultural policy. the countries with the highest number of irregularities are italy, romania, bulgaria, poland, denmark and greece. there are few surprises there. if we make vast amounts of money available to countries that are institutionally corrupt, then naturally their criminals will take full advantage of it. my constituency in london will be appalled that their taxes are subject to such a gigantic level of fraud. fortunately they can do something about it by voting to leave the eu by voting ukip on 7 may 2015.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, firstly i would like to congratulate the commission. it was a good conference, commissioner, and you got the whole world together to tackle the problem, so that in itself was very important. the lesson i took away was firstly that the crisis is not over. there are still new cases and we have got to stay on the ground and deal with them. secondly, we need to plan for the future. how can we do that? i have some meetings with the ministers from the affected countries. what they are looking for in the immediate future are some quick wins – to get the children back to school and budget support for the health systems. they want people to feel that life is getting back to normal. debt relief was another priority so that they have some resources to invest in their own education and health systems. i think that colleagues are perhaps not aware how small the budgets of these countries are. we were told that usd 550 million was the budget for liberia. that is like a small town in the united kingdom, the entire annual budget. but the key lesson for me as well is that we have to invest in health for the long term. you both said this – the commission and the council. last week, save the children published a report. that report showed that the cost of the emergency response is greater than the estimated cost of building health services in the three countries concerned. so that should be our lesson. we have got to have a health service that is free at the point of use and accessible. it is a scandal that we ask the poorest in the world to pay for their health services. we should get rid of user fees now. in september we go to new york, we have the sustainable development goals conference, and we have to put universal health care at the top of that agenda. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– to me the question on ebola is not so much could we have done more, but rather could we have reacted quicker? a makeshift hospital perhaps in two days would be better than a state—of—the—art hospital in six weeks. my brother worked as an aid worker in malawi and what he saw there on the ground is often so different from what we get in our, almost western—centric mind set. i wonder, do you agree that perhaps, on a personal level as much as on a party political level, we do sometimes have that sheltered view in the west – every bit as much in the uk as in the eu?
blue-card answer.– i think that is why it is extremely important to meet the countries concerned and ask them how they see us getting their systems going again. that is why we had a meeting last week with the president of liberia, and i had a meeting with the foreign minister of sierra leone to talk about the issues. we have to respond, get the systems working quickly, listen to the people on the ground, and the ngos, like médecins sans frontières, but we have to invest for the future as well. an emergency response that ends in april, and then nothing else happens, will mean we will have another crisis in years to come.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, montenegro, now having opened 16 of the negotiating chapters and provisionally closed 12, is of course far ahead of any of its peers in the region as a candidate country. these chapters include the all—important chapters 23 and 24, key to the accession, as they deal with the justice and home affairs rule of law areas of fighting organised crime, for instance, and fighting corruption and upholding generally the rule of law, including the issue of the judiciary; as well as, of course, chapter 31 regarding foreign policy. in this context montenegro, very much to its credit, has aligned its foreign policy position with other eu member states in applying sectoral economic sanctions against russia in response to russian aggression against ukraine. similarly, montenegro is supporting the coalition against isis in syria and iraq in proposing a law now to criminalise those of its citizens who join foreign terrorist groups. the commission’s progress report highlights a number of other areas where montenegro has also made progress and the joint resolution that i drafted echoes much of this, for instance, the election of stankovic last year as a state prosecutor is very welcome. overall, i am pleased as rapporteur that the resolution reflects a very fair picture of the current state of play for montenegro; praising its progress where illustrated, and offering advice constructively where improvement is still needed. as one example, for instance, incidents of violence against journalists and media premises has continued this year, but has actually decreased in the terms of total numbers of incidents. so i am pleased that parliament’s resolution this year has noted this fact. ensuring a free press is not only of value in its own right in terms of human rights and democracy, but it is also vital in exposing public corruption, an area where we need to see more progress in montenegro. montenegro’s commitment to the eu accession process is a strong one and it will be important politically to retain widespread domestic cross—party support in its endeavours. the eu acquis communautaire sets very tough benchmarks for the membership of all future member states but in my view, for now, montenegro definitely remains on the right track.
mr president, as has already been remarked, montenegro is a comparatively small country but it has a very big commitment to becoming the next member of the european union, and you can feel that very strongly when you talk with montenegrin civil society, with montenegrin politicians from both the government and the opposition, and with the public in general. as chair of parliament’s delegation to montenegro, i believe we, as the european parliament, also have to show a clear commitment to montenegro’s future in the eu, provided it continues to undertake reforms, both on paper and, importantly, in practice. i think this resolution does send the right signals, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on it and his inclusive and thorough approach. there are, of course, many areas of concern that remain, as are remarked on within the report. some of these have already been mentioned by the council around the issue of corruption, and particularly high-level corruption, but i would like also to focus on the issue of unemployment. currently within montenegro that is above 19% and it is particularly a problem for young people, as is the incidence of in—work poverty as well. just to finish, we also have to place the promotion of human rights and equality at the heart of the accession process, so i was very pleased that some amendments i submitted along with colleagues have made it into this report – firstly calling for the strengthening of institutions in charge of promoting human rights and anti-discrimination, like the ombudsman, while also saying we need to have a greater focus on gender and lgbti equality when we assess progress towards accession. finally, we do need to strengthen the rights of people with disabilities in montenegro. i was very pleased to hear the commissioner single out this group in his comments. colleagues, i think montenegro is leading the way amongst eu candidate countries and with this resolution we send a strong message to montenegro that we will continue to support it, provided that progress continues, and we will be watching it closely in the months and years to come.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i have been proud to serve as rapporteur on the progress report for this country, and i want to make it clear that i, like my group, continue to support setting a date for eu accession talks to begin. we thank the new rapporteur, mr vajgl, for his continuity on this and other points. however, i am forced to use my speech now as shadow rapporteur to express my, and my group’s, deep concern about the impact that the current political crisis in the country is having on the prospects for realising the aim of opening talks. my group recognises that we ourselves have a responsibility to avoid adding to the polarising forces in the country, which is why i worked with my ppe group colleagues to secure the 1 march 2013 agreement, and why i have expressed my willingness, if asked, to do so again now. in saying that, i am conscious that success would require genuine political will on both sides and that the long—term interests require functioning political institutions within the country, rather than reliance on external assistance. but let me make some things very clear: the announcement of charges and the threat of imprisonment against the leader of the opposition in the country – the leader of the sister party of the group of parties which i represent in this chamber – is a dangerous moment for democracy in this country. for the charges to be announced by the prime minister personally only adds to the concerns generated following the evidence of tapes released in relation to apparent gross political interference in the country’s judiciary and media. tonight, the opposition party is publishing further evidence – this time alleging electoral malpractice on behalf of the governing party – while the governing party has a simultaneous press conference alleging bribery on behalf of the leader of the opposition. we, in this chamber, do not want to be drawn into a spiral of allegations and counter—allegations, nor into the conflicting explanations about the provenance of the tapes; but there is no doubt that mass surveillance has taken place and that at least some of the evidence produced is genuine. we cannot ignore that evidence and nor can the commissioner. there is a sad history in this country, in this region and in other parts of europe, of systems of surveillance and of charges being brought against individuals for political purposes. these practices have no place today, in this country or in europe. if further promises of remedial judicial reform are made now – when the same promises have been made before and not fulfilled – there would have to be new elements of monitoring and review to create confidence within the country and credibility outside it. there must be political will on both sides to resolve this crisis, and this crisis must be resolved. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do agree with my honourable colleague and i say to the president—in—office of the council, that i have taken part in these debates over several years and heard the same speech from successive councils. there are now 15 member states in the council of ministers who want to move forward on this country. i do not accept responsibility here for what is happening today in this country, but we should accept that we have contributed to the conditions where this political crisis has been generated and i ask the current presidency to do better than its predecessors in actually making good the words that she has shared with us tonight.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i would say to those who support this motion that their neo—imperialistic bid for expansion into the former yugoslavia has led them to lose sight of the bigger picture. this motion calls for greater alignment of serbia to the foreign policy of the eu, specifically highlighting the current disastrous situation with russia. yet you all seem to forget the close cultural ties that serbia shares with russia through their orthodoxy, history and common values. serbia is becoming another pawn in the wider struggle with russia. if you had any sense of diplomacy or were to act out of respect for the serbian people, then you would see the potential not for more competition or potential conflict, but for reconciliation and cooperation. instead of making serbia another colony of the commission there is the real potential to let her act as an important mediator between the west and russia at this crucially sensitive time for security in eastern europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– what i am saying is that we all appreciate the sensitivity of the situation with regard to russia and european union relations at the moment. this is a really good opportunity to use serbia as a broker and i really do fear that by eventually bringing serbia into the european union you are actually playing into mr putin’s hands and giving him a chance to be even more aggressive.
madam president, by virtue of my own romany-gypsy heritage i feel i have a duty to raise the long history of discrimination against the roma minority living in kosovo. there are huge issues with regard to healthcare, education, housing, poverty, unemployment and opportunity. the roma are increasingly taking their chance, and heading west across the european union. from my perspective, this long history of discrimination is not acceptable. the roma should be made to feel more comfortable in their countries of choice. we have a perspective from the british traveller communities of a lack of provision for traveller sites. i fear, as more roma head to the united kingdom, that this puts extra pressure on our own proud travelling communities and could possibly lead to a wider anti—gypsy backlash.
blue-card question. – mr pitella, are you aware that if you succeed in decarbonising europe, our crops will have no natural gas to grow from? we have to have carbon dioxide. what you are suggesting is absolute madness and our agricultural industry is going to suffer heavily if we attempt to bury carbon dioxide in the ground: it is absolutely mad.
blue-card question.– thank you, mr verhofstadt, that was very entertaining and eloquently put as always. you started your speech by pointing out the difficulties with sovereign states and their ambassadors having different views and different priorities when dealing with russia. does that not, out of your own words, condemn the whole idea of a common eu foreign policy to the rubbish bin, because there are too many different priorities? it can never work, can it?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i have been wondering why david cameron has been slashing our armed forces, will not commit to 2% and is happy for us not to be able to defend our islands. i think mr juncker has given us the answer. we are going to do it at an eu level. we are going to have a european army. when i raised this last year with the deputy prime minister, liberal democrat nick clegg, he said it was a ‘dangerous fantasy’ to even talk about an eu army. i hope every liberal democrat voter has heard mr verhofstadt today, the leader of the european liberals, crying out for militarisation at an eu level. of course, the truth is that it is already happening. we already have a european defence agency; we already have eu battle groups on active service all over the world; we already have an eu navy active against the somali pirates; and who can forget eurocorps here in strasbourg last year virtually goose—stepping that ghastly flag round the courtyard outside? article 28 of the lisbon treaty provides for all of this. tony blair was right when he said the european union is not a project about peace, it is a project about power. i think mr juncker is trying to seize on an opportunity. we ourselves in the european union provoked the conflict through our territorial expansionism in ukraine. we poked the russian bear with a stick and, unsurprisingly, putin reacted, and this is now to be used as an opportunity to build a european army. mr verhofstadt, i know that by heckling you increase your hits on youtube because, otherwise, nobody in europe wants to listen to you. i think you really ought to let me speak.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we certainly are democrats; we never shouted you down, but you always try to shout us down. the point i was making is this, the opportunity is being seized and mr juncker said we must convey to russia that we are serious. who do you think you are kidding, mr juncker? (laughter from the efdd group)we do not want any part of an eu army, and i doubt the rest of the peoples of europe do either. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– we, through our territorial ambitions, provoked the overthrow of an albeit corrupt, but democratically elected, leader in ukraine. we have provoked this crisis. now the question you ask is ‘what do we do from here?’ i was in this chamber at the time when libya was attacked. i heard the liberals and the greens screaming, frothing at the mouth, for us to bomb libya: for us to become militarily involved because we believed that would make things better. my view, sir, is that if you look at afghanistan, if you look at iraq, if you look at libya, and if you look at the attempt to back the rebels in syria – many of whom have now morphed into isis – you will see that our recent foreign military interventions have made things worse, not better.
mr president, next week the council will discuss the crisis in ukraine and the eu’s plans for an energy union. the theme common to these subjects is russia and the threat it poses. russia is providing military equipment, financial assistance and troops to the so—called separatists in ukraine, sparking a conflict in which more than 5 000 people have died. mr putin talks peace but, at the same time, his government is doing everything possible to prevent it. as the british defence secretary noted, he is behaving like a 1930s tyrant. in these circumstances, we must remain resolute. should russia not abide by the latest ceasefire, then we should increase sanctions further. at a time when the solidarity and resolve of the nato alliance is so vital, it is not helpful, mr juncker, mr verhofstadt, for you to start fantasising about an eu army. mr putin also uses energy policy to threaten us, and here the eu can play a useful role. i welcome the commission’s plans on the energy union. i want a continent—wide single market in both gas and electricity. this will increase competition and lower prices for consumers and businesses, and that will create the growth and jobs we all want. the eu needs to be in a position where it does not matter if mr putin turns off the gas taps because we can import as much gas as we need though our liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals and transport it across the whole continent. that is real energy security. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr fox, it is often stated by the federalists in this place that one advantage of a european union is that it has kept the peace since 1945. do you agree with me that europe is possibly at a more dangerous precipice now than it ever has been since the end of that bloody war?
blue-card answer.– i think the european community and the european union have played a role in preserving peace on this continent. but i think the cornerstone of peace in europe has been nato, and i emphasise the importance of that military alliance, of our allies in the united states, canada and turkey. talk of an eu army is very dangerous indeed.
mr president, i really welcome the emphasis on reforms and better regulation in the annual growth survey and in the committee on employment and social affairs’ report, and i thank the rapporteur. it is so important we create the right environment to enable businesses to grow and create jobs. this can help us to accelerate the trend of re—shoring – bringing jobs back to europe. we are seeing this in the uk, and it can happen right across the eu. there can be no one—size—fits—all approach. we do not have a single european social model. effective policy solutions are best devised by the member states. in britain we have 760 000 more small businesses than we had five years ago. the uk is the most entrepreneurial country in europe. there are 1.85 million more people in work than five years ago. wages are now rising faster than inflation, and there are more people with the stability and security of a job. this is real growth.
mr president, for the first time, the self—doubt of the eu political class has transmitted itself publicly, because the motion for debate notes that the euro area, in particular, stands out as an area of unsatisfactory growth. that is because other countries have control over setting their own interest rates and managing their own exchange rates to suit the needs of their economies. in britain, we have a saying ‘the penny is starting to drop’: well, the euro has certainly started to drop on the international exchanges and, along with quantitative easing, that may help in generating some growth this year. but we all know that once germany has had enough medicine, the prescription will be stopped for everyone. they used to say that when america sneezed the world caught a cold. well, in euroland, when germany stops sneezing the whole of southern europe will be left to die of influenza. this currency union has failed. someone must put it out of its misery.
mr president, to get sustainable public finances we need jobs and growth to help our businesses be competitive and to increase trade. too often in the past european legislation has added extra red tape and cost for consumers and it is good that many in this house are recognising the need to change. the single market is key – businesses need confidence in a level playing field – but we also need better laws and they need to be better implemented and to protect against protectionism. to succeed our single market must also be vibrant and diverse, not a top—down ‘one—size—fits—all’ communist grey. we do not need ‘one—size—fits—all’ taxes, wages, employment laws; these do not create jobs and i will not support reports that call for them. the european semester was meant to be a place to share best practice, to exchange views and give recommendations. it is not about bureaucrats issuing orders or centralised dictates; that will not give people confidence.
madam president, you gave us the wrong number on that last vote.
in writing. – due to the fact that the purpose of this regulation is technical, i.e. to adapt and update the decision-making procedure in this case, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this because it was a technical amendment.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the commission proposal for a regulation is technical simplification. the regulation concerns the import of products (with the notable exception of textiles) into the eu from azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. this proposal was necessary to ensure legal clarity, on account of the previous regulation being subject to amendments. the countries concerned are those that do not belong to the world trade organisation (wto) and are therefore not subject to any preferential treatment, and are not covered by wto rules, hence the need for a common set of rules governing imports from them in this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns a technical matter to undertake codification of council regulation (ec) no 517/94 on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific community import rules. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it, fully preserving the content of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in the interests of clarity and rationality. the purpose of this proposal is to undertake codification of council regulation 517/94 on common rules for imports of products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific community import rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which will facilitate trade with non-wto countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is only a technical proposal that seeks to codify two existing regulations that deal with common rules (on surveillance and safeguard measures).
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. in terms of the scope of the proposal, it sets out safeguard and surveillance instruments which can be applied to the import of products, including coal and steel but excluding textiles which are subject to a separate regulation. the regulation only applies to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the safeguard instrument is rarely used in practice and as regards surveillance, the last surveillance measure was in force on steel products and expired on 31 december 2012. in terms of what the recast does, the main change concerns updating the annex to remove countries which have now become members of the world trade organization, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation as it will supersede the various acts incorporated in it whilst fully preserving the contents of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on common rules for imports from certain third countries. i welcome the countries which have now joined the wto and the updating of the annex as a result of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will clarify and codify common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or other community import rules.
in writing. – this vote concerned codification, which is effectively simplification. on the basis that it is technical and concerned simplification rather than content, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this regulation lays down procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and montenegro, including in terms of a reduced customs duty within the tariff quota for the carriage of fish and fishery products. the codification concerns council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and montenegro, and for applying the interim agreement between the eu and montenegro. it stipulates that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union at a reduced customs duty within the limits of tariff quotas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the duda report on the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro, seeing that it merely concerns a codification to bring the agreement up to date, taking into account aspects modified over the past 14 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns codification to bring the previous agreement up to date and takes into account aspects of the agreement that have been modified over the past 14 years.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is simply codification to bring the agreement up to date, taking into account other aspects of the agreement modified over the past 14 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which will help to bring the agreement up to dat and take into account other aspects modified over the past 14 years, such as anti-dumping and excessive imports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro. i welcome the codification to bring the agreement up to date, taking into account other aspects of the agreement modified over the past 14 years: union tariff quotas for high—quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and maslin, and brans, sharps and other residues.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which will codify and bring up to date modifications made to the agreement between the eu and the republic of montenegro over the past 14 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because, as a ukip mep, i believe that the united kingdom should be in charge of all issues relating to trade tariffs.
in writing. ‒ the report supports codification of council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 on opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residues. the eu negotiated tariff concessions under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) and under the uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations. the negotiations led to agreements which provide for the opening, under certain conditions, of certain annual community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residues. it opens annual community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products being imported into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of a larger group of codification files being votes on. this codification takes into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products being imported into the eu. the proposal aims to open annual community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residues, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is simply a codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products being imported into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which will take into account the changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products being imported into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residues. i welcome the codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products being imported into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products imported into the eu, such as high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultry, wheat and meslin, and brans, sharps and other residues.
in writing. ‒ in line with my previous votes, i intended to vote against this resolution because ukip meps believe that the uk should be in charge of its own system of preferences applicable to imports from turkey to the uk.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns codification of council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. the main provisions codified include decision no 1/98 of the ec-turkey association council, which establishes the system of preferences applicable to imports into the eu of agricultural products originating in turkey. it sets out uniform conditions for the implementation of this system and, in the case of products for which eu regulations require a certain import price to be observed, it states that the application of the preferential tariff system will be subject to the that price.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of a larger group of codification files being votes on. this codification takes into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is simply a codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which will take into account the changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i welcome the codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ this vote was to suspend certain concessions currently given to turkey. to vote in favour would provide implicit acceptance of the current system; to vote against might condone actions by turkey in breach of an agreement. therefore, i intended to abstain as the most logical option.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the duda report, which concerns codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes into account changes in the relationship between the eu and turkey on the subject of agricultural products. in order to protect the union's commercial interests, the concessions set out in the annex to the regulation should therefore be suspended.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it only contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on suspending certain concessions relating to the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey and codification.
in writing. ‒ the general fisheries committee for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) and meets annually to discuss maritime issues applicable to the mediterranean and the black sea. issues covered include management of resources using msy (maximum sustainable yield), discards and how to tackle iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing. this agreement follows a review of the gfcm and proposes changes which would be in line with the reformed common fisheries policy. the uk is neither affected by the gfcm, nor has direct fishing interests in the mediterranean. however, i was able to support this agreement because we support the process of improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the rfmos
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given that measures are urgently needed for the conservation of red coral, mitigating the catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and regulating the use of gill-nets in the black sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains a number of preferable conservation measures for the mediterranean – particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches. the proposal covers measures for the conservation of red coral, monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm management area, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report dealing with the mediterranean. whilst the new general fisheries commission will deal with waters which are not fully within the eu, we should also remember that under the new cfp eu waters should also be managed on a regional basis. i fully subscribe to the notion that europeʼs seas are best managed by the nations with direct management and economic interests in them.
in writing. ‒ although the uk is not directly affected by this proposal, the agreement contains a number of preferable conservation measures of red coral, monk seals, sharks and rays, and technical fisheries measures to mitigate the catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report considering the mutual interest in the development and the proper utilisation of the living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of the living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which those resources occur, plays a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. although the uk is not directly affected by this proposal, the agreement contains a number of preferable conservation measures for the mediterranean – particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proper utilisation of the living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and i am convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of the living marine resources in the area of application, and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which those resources occur, will play a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposed regulation because it introduces measures aiming to ensure the conservation of red corals and reduce unintended catches of species in the mediterranean such as seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence relates to before mr zagorakis’ time as an mep. it relates to a substantive allegation. it would be inappropriate for the european union to prevent the judicial process; therefore, i voted in favour of waiver of the parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the report which will be discussed and adopted on monday evening in committee will recommend waiving the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, who has been accused of bodily harm and infringement of his obligations as an employer by endangering the health and safety of staff by failing to make sure equipment was suitable for use. it specifically concerns allegations that handrails were not fitted to a metal ladder, which resulted in a fall and two arm fractures of an employee. since the alleged offences do not have a direct or obvious connection with his performance of his duties as a mep, nor constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu, the ecr will support the recommendation in the report to waive his immunity.
in writing. – i voted in favor of this request for waiver as there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to damage a member’s political activity (fumus persecutionis), given that the prosecution was initiated a number of years before the member took office.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis following the request of the greek supreme court. in this case, there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to damage a member’s political activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this as there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to damage a member’s political activity (fumus persecutionis), given that the prosecution was initiated a number of years before the member took office.
in writing. ‒ the socialists and democrats group voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis. there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to damage the member’s political activity, given that the prosecution was initiated a number of years before mr zagorakis took office.
in writing. ‒ as with the previous case, this does not relate to mr stanishev’s work as an mep. i am aware of no clear reason to defend immunity in this case. therefore i voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this request for waiver as in this case parliament has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the case has been brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of sergei stanishev. in this case, there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to damage a member’s political activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as in this case parliament has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the case has been brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member concerned.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of sergei stanishev. the alleged offence does not have a direct or obvious connection with mr stanishev’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. pre-trial investigations against sergei stanishev had already started long before he became a member of the european parliament, and the proceedings in question are, therefore, not connected in any way with his position as a member of the european parliament.
i wrote it. i am not voting in favour of this report because i do not know what the good things in it are, but i think it is a good thing that it has been reviewed and that it has been made a financial crime. of course, i had no support to give him because i believe that we have no choice but to do what the commission is doing and that the current financial framework is illicit. it's been said time and time again that the budget has been created completely differently from the budget that was reviewed. the public investment programme is strong, investment will strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the region; investment will be decided upon by the commission and will be reduced by a huge amount. we shouldn't be making laws to avoid breaches. it is currently under discussion with mr juncker. it is important to study the state of public health and to stop the spread of this disease. caithfimid bogadh or in the polsaithe deine inmediate, agus polsaithe a chur i i force that operates ar are in the ndaoine statt ina contrary.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i cannot accept many of the principles of the proposed 2016 budget. the juncker plan is fundamentally flawed, and there is no attempt to return any financial competence to the member states – even in cases where the eu funding model has proven to be fundamentally flawed.
in writing. ‒ as parliament has its say on the guidelines for the eu budget for 2016, there should be huge emphasis placed on value for money at a time when households, families and businesses face daily pressures as a result of national cuts. yet this report does exactly the opposite - it threatens more of the same: targeted budget increases, a reversal of staff and budget cuts, and a continued fascination with a green agenda. and all of this at a time when europe claims to want to connect with voters and with its citizens. these proposals fail to reflect the burdens hard-felt by taxpayers right across northern ireland and the rest of the united kingdom. they fail to recognise that, for the average person, getting as much back from europe than they put in, if not more, is the most important thing as to how they view the whole project. but the federalists show little sympathy. this is not democracy - this is a disconnect, and it is time for members of this house to call it exactly what it is.
in writing. ‒ while there are some aspects of the report which would be good for scotland, such as the emphasis on boosting employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship, it is clear that the european parliament's agenda has not changed, with a majority still believing in targeted increases to the budget. for this reason i will vote against. the vote in plenary will be followed by the annual "spring trilogue" on 30 march. following the trilogue, the commission will come forward with a draft budget by the end of may.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the guidelines for the 2016 budget because i felt that there was insufficient reference within the guidelines to reductions in areas of spending which have consistently failed to promote sustainable economic growth, such as in the common agricultural policy direct subsidy. although there has been a welcome reorientation of spending towards research and support for young unemployed people, much more needs to be done to focus european spending on measures which will lead to an increase in decent, quality jobs, particularly for young people. there are many examples within the south-east of england of european funding projects promoting sustainable growth, and we should be strongly backing such projects, by removing funding from areas like the cap and the wasteful second seat of the european parliament in strasbourg. i will continue to work with my colleagues within the european parliament to encourage a reorientation of the eu budget towards growth-promoting areas of expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the guidelines for the 2016 budget, given that there was a lack of any real reference to making cuts to ineffective areas of spending, like the cap direct subsidy for agriculture. what we need is more productive, effective and forward-thinking investment in industries that will secure growth and jobs, in research, and in our young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as inefficient budget lines have not been cut and because of the inclusion of a call to make full use of the mff ceiling, which labour meps believe to be too high.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the guidelines as there was a lack of any real reference to making cuts to ineffective areas of spending, like the cap direct subsidy for agriculture. we need to see more productive, effective and forward-thinking investment in research, in our young people, which will secure growth and jobs. we do need to see less effective areas of spending within the eu budget redirected to projects that deliver real economic and social benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as my national delegation does not believe it is necessary to increase the eu budget for next year and would like to see the eu budget being focused on areas that support jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the guidelines for 2016 due to the absence of any calls to cut inefficient budget lines and the call to make full use of the mff ceiling which, overall, is too high.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against the guidelines for the 2016 budget as there was a lack of any real reference to making cuts to ineffective areas of spending, like the cap direct subsidy for agriculture. we need to see more productive, effective and forward-thinking investment - investment in industries that will secure growth and jobs, in research, and in our young people. we are working with colleagues here in the european parliament to drive the european economy forwards and to work towards an eu budget that delivers more positive impacts in the west midlands. we do need to see less effective areas of spending within the eu budget redirected to projects that deliver real economic and social benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the guidelines for the 2016 budget as i believe it is not necessary to increase the eu budget next year. additional money should, rather, be used in areas that support jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ along with my parliament labour party colleagues i voted against these guidelines because of the absence of any calls to cut inefficient budget lines. i believe we should refocus the eu budget so there can be more investment in programmes which encourage growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ along with my european parliament labour party colleagues i voted against these guidelines because of the absence of any calls to cut inefficient budget lines. i believe we should refocus the eu budget so there can be more investment in programmes which encourage growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote against this report, as it recognises the level of financial irregularities and at least some steps are being taken to minimise them. however, i could not vote in favour as much of the problem is structural: it is impossible to eradicate irregularities in this system.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely right that we should come together to discuss ways in which governments across europe can detect and deter financial crimes across society. illicit trade, smuggling and laundering - which this report is correct to highlight - are crimes which disproportionately impact my constituency, northern ireland, given our unique land border with the republic of ireland. and i am delighted to be able to stand before you today in the knowledge that the uk national crime agency is now able to operate in northern ireland for the betterment of our economy, border communities blighted by these crimes, and our society as a whole. the previous veto on this specialist body working in northern ireland was costing the local economy millions of pounds every year - money which lined the pockets of crime gangs with alleged links to republican terrorists. these national authorities should always have primacy to investigate and prosecute these crimes. however, europe does have a role to play in terms of ensuring that spending under the eu budget is credible, safe and immune from corruption where possible. only then can any form of value for money be secured.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the commission's annual report, which outlines a broad range of legal and administrative measures taken since 2011 to shape a new landscape for the further enhancement of the policy for the protection of the financial interests of the union. the report states that effective action against corruption is possible if criminal law measures are complemented by other measures such as better transparency and accountability and that member states must demonstrate political will in countering corruption. the report welcomes the establishment of anti-fraud coordination services (afcos) in member states as bodies which facilitate effective cooperation and exchange of information with olaf. the report also welcomes the successful outcomes of numerous joint customs operations (jcos) involving the cooperation of olaf and member states with various third-country services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pirinski report on the fight against fraud because we owe it to our citizens to adopt a strong, unified approach to tackling fraud across all eu member states. in 2013, eur 309 million of eu funds was lost to fraud. fast action is required, including strengthening of the measures already in place, simplification of eu rules and upgrading of the administrative capacities of member states. when it comes to misusing taxpayersʼ money, we need to adopt a zero-tolerance policy.
in writing. ‒ the misuse of eu funds cannot and will not be tolerated. i voted for this report as it calls for a strong, unified approach to tackling fraud across all eu member states. there are still different approaches in member states in detecting and reporting fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities and there needs to be a set of common guidelines and indicators in order that member states can develop a unified and comprehensive ‘information bank’ on irregularities and measures taken.
in writing. ‒ fraud is still too prevalent in the eu and it is imperative that the institutions maintain efforts to clamp down on it. parliament has clearly called for the commission to bring forward legislation to protect whistle—blowers and we will not accept any unnecessary delays.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report calling for a strict policy of combating fraud and efficient measures to reduce the number of irregularities in the eu budget. we urgently need to strengthen the measures in place to combat cases of fraud and to pursue a policy of zero tolerance. at the same time we highlight the need to upgrade the administrative capacities of member states and simplify eu rules in order to facilitate better compliance and drastically reduce non-fraudulent irregularities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which underlines the fact that smuggling of heavily taxed goods causes significant loss of revenue for the budgets of the eu and the member states, and that direct losses in customs revenue as a result of cigarette smuggling alone are estimated at more than eur 10 billion a year. it draws attention, moreover, to trafficking in counterfeit goods, which inflicts damage upon both the member statesʼ tax authorities and eu companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the misuse of eu funds cannot and will not be tolerated. this report calls for a strong and unified approach to tackling fraud across all eu member states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the annual report for 2013 on the protection of the eu's financial interests, specifically the fight against fraud. the protection of the financial interests of the eu, together with the principle of sound financial management, should guarantee that budget revenue and expenditure contribute towards the achievement of the eu’s priorities and objectives. furthermore, it would increase the confidence of citizens by assuring them that their money is being used in a transparent way, in full compliance with the aims and policies of the eu and in the interests of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the misuse of eu funds cannot be tolerated. therefore i voted in favour of the report calling for a strong, unified approach to tackle fraud across european union member states.
in writing. – while there were a number of issues highlighted in this report that i welcome, such as the need to tackle corruption, protect the independence of the judiciary and of the media and the need to tackle impunity in war crimes cases, among others, i believe this report should have been stronger on human rights issues in the country. although it mentioned issues such as women's rights, gender equality, lgbti rights etc., it did so briefly and failed to express the importance to society of addressing systemic discrimination in these areas. significantly, in paragraph 22 the report commends montenegro's role in the "process of regional reconciliation", while, in the same paragraph, " invites relevant eu member states to consider accelerating montenegro's nato accession process in order to enhance regional stability". i do not believe the expansion of nato is consistent with either regional reconciliation or regional stability, and i oppose the call for eu member states to facilitate or encourage nato expansion. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent for a ukip mep to vote against this report because our philosophy is that the uk should be able to negotiate its own relationship with montenegro. such a bespoke agreement would be better than one negotiated for us, compromising over the needs of the 28 european union countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which commends montenegro on the progress achieved so far. it encourages continuation of the accession negotiations on the basis of reforms implemented, particularly in the fields of the rule of law, freedom of expression, and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress achieved by montenegro on the path to eu accession and encourage continuation of eu- related reforms. montenegro should now focus on reforms relating to the rule of law, the improvement of public administration and increasing transparency within the political system. i continue to strongly support the aspirations of the western balkan countries to engage in european reforms and to become eu members themselves. the process of integration will strengthen the democratic institutions of those countries, modernise their economies and thus improve the lives of citizens. labour party members and the s&d group will be sure to keep enlargement high on the eu’s political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which is concerned about the backlog of cases pending before the constitutional court, in particular those relating to the possible systematic violation of human rights, such as the initiative to examine the constitutionality of the law on misdemeanours.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on montenegro along with the socialists and democrats group. the progress report highlights that montenegro has opened sixteen chapters in accession negotiations and has already provisionally closed two. this is real progress in the enlargement process. reforms are still necessary in areas such as the rule of law, public administration and discrimination against women and lgbti community members. s&d presented amendments on issues such as anti-discrimination, rights of vulnerable members of society and other social issues with most being adopted or considered in the compromises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report indicating the progress made by montenegro in regards its accession to the european union and measures still to be taken. while real progress is being made, reforms need to be made in areas such as the rule of law, public administration and discrimination against women and lgbti community members.
in writing. – i abstained on the 2014 progress report on macedonia as i feel there are contradictory aspects to it. the report calls for the authorities and civil society to overcome ethnic and identity divisions in macedonia. i welcome this. in ireland we are still working towards national reconciliation and respect for all our identities. recently at our annual party conference, the sinn féin chairperson, speaking about the irish peace process, said: "there should be a fearless resolve to dismantle barriers and build bridges by all sides. those who want to push the peace process backwards, and directly or implicitly oppose reconciliation should be challenged, without fear or favour." unfortunately the report also calls for macedonia's accession to nato. i believe the expansion of nato is contrary to the spirit of peace and reconciliation. hence my abstention.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the accession of macedonia to the european union, and therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the eu accession process for the fyrom is currently at an impasse. there has also been no breakthrough in the long- running dispute with greece, which dates back to the breakup of yugoslavia in 1991. fyrom applied to join the eu in 2004. in march 2012, a high-level accession dialogue started with the eu offering new opportunities on eu-related priorities of benefit to the country's social and economic development, including the rule of law. the report calls for fresh efforts to resolve the main issues, and warns of the risks of conflict in the balkans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) because it is high time for the council to make progress on setting a date for the start of accession negotiations. starting negotiations will be crucial in helping fyrom achieve the necessary reforms in the fields of the rule of law, independence of judicial power and the fight against corruption. this can only be achieved however, if the current deadlock between political forces in the country is solved. therefore i urge the commission and high representative mogherini to work with all parties in fyrom to facilitate internal dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) because it encourages fyrom to continue efforts to reform the rule of law and the fight against corruption in the country.
in writing. ‒ i continue to support setting a date for eu accession talks to begin. i am, however, concerned about the impact which the current political crisis in the country is having on the prospects for realising that aim. i welcome the report's call for an independent investigation into all allegations and unauthorised surveillance, with full respect for the principles of transparency, impartiality and presumption of innocence. all political actors should engage in constructive dialogue. i continue to strongly support the aspirations of the western balkan countries to engage in european reforms and to become eu members themselves. the process of integration will strengthen the democratic institutions of these countries, modernise their economies and thus improve the lives of citizens. labour party members and the s&d group will be sure to keep enlargement high on the eu’s political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which welcomes the fact that the eu agenda remains the country’s strategic priority; encourages the country to further consolidate reforms and to reverse policies and practices which could still constitute obstacles for its european future, and to secure progress in the implementation of eu-related reform priorities, including in the context of the high-level accession dialogue.
in writing. ‒ labour meps supported the motion for a resolution on the progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the report reiterates its call on the council to set a date for the start of accession negotiations without further delay. bilateral issues should not represent an obstacle to the official opening of the negotiations. it also emphasises the ongoing need for reform in the country in areas such as civil society engagement, the civil service and freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as, for the ninth consecutive time, it calls on the council to set a date for the start of fyrom's accession negotiations. furthermore, the report calls for more active engagement on the country's name issue and draws attention to the ongoing need for reform in areas such as civil society engagement, the civil service and freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ as a long friend of macedonia it is disappointing that negotiations are still to be opened, particularly bearing in mind its strong and existing alignment with the acquis. as noted in the resolution, this is now the ninth time parliament has called upon the council to open negotiations. the thessaloniki agenda states that all western balkan countries have a european union perspective and macedonia should prove no exception. i welcome therefore the resolution’s call for the high representative to support the un’s special representative, matthew nimetz, in finding a mutually acceptable solution to the unresolved name issue, and its reference that bilateral issues should not prevent the accession process of potential members. this issue aside i welcome the calls regarding potential nato membership. however, i do think it necessary to remind macedonia of its commitments concerning chapter 31 of the acquis and therefore note its failure to join in applying eu-wide sanctions against russia. many reforms will be needed before macedonia can join the eu, especially considering recent allegations of electoral malpractice and corruption, but it is difficult to encourage these whilst the accession process remains stalled. i hope therefore that next year i will be able to welcome the opening of negotiations.
in writing. – there are some positives in this progress report for serbia, particularly calls for enhancing human rights, children's rights, fundamental freedoms, respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, justice and reconciliation. these recommendations are all important issues that need to be dealt with in a post-conflict society such as serbia. in ireland's experience, the good friday agreement commits signatories to delivering an irish language act and a bill of rights for the north and a charter of human rights for all-ireland. we are still fighting for the implementation of these. so i welcome enhancing human rights protections in serbia. however, i am concerned by calls for "structural economic reforms" and "fiscal consolidation". in ireland's experience these so-called reforms, at the behest of the eu, have caused much hardship, particularly to the most vulnerable. on this basis i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the contribution of the european parliament to the 2014 progress report on serbia underlines the agreement of most members with the decision of the european council to launch accession negotiations. the many amendments to this resolution tabled this year led to a balanced result. i was therefore pleased to vote for the resolution. i am particularly supportive of the points in the resolution recalling that the eu has placed the rule of law at the centre of our enlargement policy. in addition, i fully support the calls for further early action in the area of ensuring judicial independence and protecting fundamental rights in serbia, including trade union, equalities and minorities’ rights, and free speech. while recognising and welcoming efforts made by serbia aiming to restructure public administration, i was glad that my own amendment reinforcing the importance of workers’ rights and the significance of public sector employment for serbian citizens and their wellbeing was incorporated into the final text. furthermore, it is important that we agreed on wording urging the serbian government to ensure an accessible education system and prioritise the provision of work and training opportunities for young people.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the accession of serbia to the european union, and therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and serbia are gradually improving, with the formal beginning of accession talks having taken place in january 2014. a comprehensive contractual framework between both sides entered into force the previous september. the report positively assesses recent parliamentary elections, and the "smooth implementation" of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement, which the rapporteur says provides the general framework for serbia and the eu to intensify their cooperation. there are also calls for further steps to reform political and judicial structures, improve economic policy, and improve the treatment of minority groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on serbia seeing that, while praise is due for the smooth implementation of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement, significant obstacles remain on serbiaʼs path to the eu. these include media freedom, deteriorating conditions for freedom of expression and a lack of transparency in the funding of political parties and election campaigns. in particular, serbia urgently needs to make headway on ensuring equal representation of women in political and public life, improving the situation of the roma and ensuring consistent implementation across the country of legislation on protection of minorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on serbia, which calls on serbia to work more closely with neighbouring countries and to promote a culture of freedom and openness. while significant obstacles remain in relation to serbiaʼs path to accession to the eu, including protection for freedom of expression and freedom of the press as well as a lack of transparency in relation to political funding and election campaigns, this report highlights the positive steps which have already been taken and points to what can be done to make serbia a more free and open society
in writing. ‒ i congratulate serbia on the progress achieved on its path to the eu. however, a lot of work lies ahead on issues such as media freedom, deteriorating conditions for freedom of expression, and lack of transparency in the funding of political parties and election campaigns. serbia should also make further efforts to guarantee gender equality and protect the rights of minority groups. i continue to strongly support the aspirations of the western balkan countries to engage in european reforms and to become eu members themselves. the process of integration will strengthen the democratic institutions of these countries, modernise their economies and thus improve the lives of citizens. labour party members and the s&d group will be sure to keep enlargement high on the eu’s political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which calls on serbia to intensify its cooperation with neighbouring countries and to strengthen its efforts in the search for missing persons, and to fully share all relevant data. it urges the serbian authorities, in this regard, to open up the archives of the yugoslav people’s army in order to establish the truth of past tragic events and obtain information. furthermore it urges the authorities to open up and facilitate transparent access to those archives that concern former republics of yugoslavia and to the documents of the former intelligence agency (udba), including by providing them to the respective governments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the resolution on the progress report on serbia. the report welcomes the formal beginning of accession talks which began on 21 january 2014. it draws attention to certain problems in the country yet to be overcome including media freedom, deteriorating conditions for freedom of expression and lack of transparency in the funding of political parties. serbia must make an effort to address these challenges. it is hoped that accession talks will continue progressing smoothly.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as i welcome serbia’s accession talks, but also believe we need to draw attention to problems and challenges the country is still facing in regard to media freedom, equal representation of women in political and public life, lack of transparency in the funding of political parties and election campaigns and deteriorating conditions for freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ 2014 marked the opening of negotiations between serbia and the eu, with the first inter-governmental conference taking place in january of last year. this is a welcome step forward, which i hope will add momentum to enacting the comprehensive actions plans that have been set out, particularly regarding chapters 23 and 24. i am pleased to note that the process of normalising relations with kosovo is continuing, which is particularly important in the negotiations bearing in mind the added conditions of chapter 35. as rapporteur for montenegro i would like to raise attention to the recent commitment between serbia and montenegro to increase co-operation regarding security and policing. agreements have been reached on opening up further border crossings, with increased border security co-operation, as well as working together to fight cross-border organised crime and corruption. the continuing links with united russia, the high-profile visit of president putin in late october 2014 and the failure to join in the european-wide sanctions against russia do remain of concern, however. 2014 marks only the beginning of negotiations and there is a long road ahead. nevertheless, serbia remains politically committed to eu membership and has set out an ambitious road-map to achieving it.
in writing. – there were a number of positive aspects to the 2014 progress report on kosovo. the text outlines a number of current social and economic issues facing kosovo including poverty, ethnic division and need for reconciliation, unemployment, minority rights and the social exclusion of or discrimination against women, the lgbt community, etc. however, the report also calls for ‘structural economic reforms’ and further liberalisation of its market which i believe would be damaging for kosovo and its people, as it has been for many other countries in europe and beyond. on this basis i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the accession of kosovo to the european union, and therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the report is concerned about the recent allegations of corruption within eulex and welcomes the reaction by the vp/hr mogherini to appoint an independent expert to probe into the handling of such allegations. the report takes note of the progress made by kosovo in fulfilling the requirements of the visa liberalisation roadmap. it notes with concern the high unemployment rates. finally the report regrets that due to the election events in both countries, the pace of high-level negotiations between kosovo and serbia has slowed down.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european integration process of kosovo because it is crucial that we send out a clear signal to the effect that, following the resolution of a six-month political stalemate, the government now urgently needs to achieve step change in strengthening the rule of law and the judiciary, eradicating corruption and organised crime, strengthening employment, and laying strong foundations for structural economic reforms and sustainable development. deeply concerned about the recent allegations of corruption against eulex, i also urge the independent expert appointed by vp/hr mogherini to carry out investigations on this matter in full transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which looks at the political stalemate that has followed its recent elections. the report highlights the need for the new government to carry out necessary reforms such as strengthening the rule of law and fighting against corruption and organised crime in the country.
in writing. ‒ i welcome parliament’s call for all the eu’s member states to recognise kosovo’s independence. the eu is a union of independent states and national self-determination is a fundamental right. countries which continue to ignore kosovo’s independence show a lack of respect for the democratic wishes of that country’s people.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european integration process of kosovo. kosovo’s authorities have to pursue the necessary reforms with commitment, and strengthen the rule of law, the fight against corruption, discrimination, unemployment, and structural economic reforms for the benefit of citizens. i continue to strongly support the aspirations of the western balkan countries to engage in european reforms and to become eu members themselves. the process of integration will strengthen the democratic institutions of these countries, modernise their economies and thus improve the lives of citizens. labour party members and the s&d group will be sure to keep enlargement high on the eu’s political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which expresses concern at the lack of any significant progress in fighting high-level corruption and organised crime, a significant obstacle in the way of kosovo’s democratic, social and economic development. it stresses the need for a clear signal from the government that kosovo is systematically tackling corruption at all levels and fighting organised crime and calls for further steps to prevent any possible link between organised crime and people within the public administration. it is also concerned about widespread illegal ownership of firearms and calls on the kosovar government to initiate programmes to collect such firearms. it calls on kosovo to cooperate with the eu expert group on arms trafficking and with neighbouring countries in taking preventive action, and calls for the eu to provide every form of technical assistance required for that purpose.
in writing. ‒ socialist and democrat meps strongly support the european integration process of kosovo and therefore voted in favour of the resolution. the new government in kosovo must urgently pursue the necessary reforms on the rule of law, corruption, employment etc. with commitment and determination. to date, 23 out of 28 member states have recognised kosovo’s independence, and this resolution encourages the remaining five member states to proceed with the recognition of kosovo. strengthening relations with its neighbours should be seen as a method to advance stabilisation in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i welcome the end of kosovo’s six-month political stalemate following the elections, and also support the call for the new government to pursue necessary reforms that will strengthen the rule of law and judiciary, fight against organised crime and corruption. furthermore, i support the resolution’s encouragement for all eu member states to recognise kosovo’s independence.
madam president, i supported this report too as it welcomes the commission’s new approach to economic policy, with focus on growth and investment. the report for me also insists on reforms that are very important, and which are required from member states, that they must be socially—balanced and growth friendly and that the surplus countries must do more to re—launch growth in europe. however, i believe in the future that the european commission should also take into account the reforms made by member states to tackle tax fraud and tax evasion and give credits to these member states in the same way as member states who reduce their excessive deficit get credits.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the european semester process is sufficiently democratic, and in any event as a ukip mep i should vote against for reasons of principle.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained in the split vote on part 1 of paragraph 29, because while we cannot support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we of course do not oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ the report is the european parliament's response to the annual growth survey, which is the commission's analysis of the eu's priorities for growth for the year ahead. it stresses that the most important priorities are member states’ competitiveness and reduced unemployment and stresses that low gdp, low inflation and high unemployment should all be urgently addressed. more controversial elements of the report concern calls for the commission to address fiscal consolidation and promote increasing convergence. there are statements that the european monetary union is 'far from complete' and the commission is reminded of its obligations and commitments to enhance economic and budgetary coordination. the report then asks the commission to put forward proposals for the completion of the emu, which should be based on the community method.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 29, split 1, because, while we cannot support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we of course do not oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it welcomes the commission's new approach to economic policy, with focus on growth and investment. the report also insists that reforms required from member states must be socially balanced and growth-friendly and that surplus countries must do more to relaunch growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. it welcomes the commission's new approach to economic policy, with focus on growth and investment, and insists that reforms required from member states must be socially balanced and growth-friendly and that surplus countries must do more to relaunch growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which stresses that reducing the eu’s dependence on external energy sources must form part of its growth strategy; it reiterates, therefore, the need to diversify external energy supplies, to upgrade the eu’s energy infrastructure and to complete the eu internal energy market as key priorities of the eu energy security strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which welcomes the commission's new approach to economic policy, with focus on growth and investment. moreover, it insists that reforms required from member states must be socially balanced and growth-friendly and that surplus countries must do more to relaunch growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 29, split 1, because, while we cannot support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we of course do not oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ today i voted with my s&d group colleagues in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2015. the report draws attention to the fact that the euro area is still struggling with the consequences of an exceptionally long economic downturn after 2008. it points out that the recovery is still fragile and should be enhanced if it is to deliver substantially more growth and jobs in the medium term. however, growth in 2014 is more broadly based. economic recovery in the eu slowed down considerably in the course of 2014 but, according to the commission, has a prospect of catching up in 2015 and of doing even better in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported the annual growth survey 2015 as it sets out what more can be done at eu level to help member states return to higher growth levels. specifically, it proposes that the process be streamlined, with a view to increasing political ownership, accountability and acceptance of the process, to strengthening its credibility and comparability across member states and to improving the implementation of country-specific recommendations.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 29, split 1, because while we cannot support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we do not, of course, oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the european semester process is sufficiently democratic, and in any event as a ukip mep i should vote against for reasons of principle. in terms of economic and social aspects, i am concerned that many suggestions – however laudable – should fall within the remit of the member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 29, split 1, because, while we cannot support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we of course do not oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ amendment no.2 i voted for this amendment because i believe it is essential that the european parliament take every opportunity possible to highlight the need to combat precarious work. this includes combating the scourge of zero-hours contracts and short-hours work, which is making forward planning all but impossible for many working people in the uk.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 ags is accompanied by the draft joint employment report (jer). the jer takes stock of employment reforms in member states, expands on the key employment messages contained in the ags and includes for the first time the findings of the "social and employment scoreboard", which was introduced last year to strengthen the social dimension of the emu. while the ags does not in itself have any regulatory implications, this own-initiative report seeks to build on the jer. while it is quite balanced in places and contains a number of key ecr priorities, it also calls for a number of initiatives at eu level that the ecr cannot support, including: a european framework for minimum wages; a proposal for a european minimum income; a european framework for introducing minimum standards for the implementation of youth guarantees; the introduction of an eu child guarantee against poverty; a green paper on automatic stabilisers in the emu (eu unemployment benefit scheme); and making the "social and employment scoreboard" binding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that employment and social considerations should be on a par with macroeconomic ones in terms of eu economic policy coordination. in-work poverty persists in wales and low wages are a serious problem. we need to create good-quality, well paid and sustainable jobs. we also need security at work and an end to exploitative contracts and practises, as well as an end to discrimination. the report recognises these issues. plaid cymru has the policies to address these problems to revitalise the welsh economy and ensure social protection for all workers.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 29, split 1, because, while we cannot support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we of course do not oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it calls for the eu to focus on growth-led policies, the creation of quality jobs, support for smes and tackling inequality.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the need for structural reforms in member states and, as a member from the united kingdom, i fully support that call. the structures of the uk should be dismantled so that the people of scotland can choose the government they want at every election. the westminster system is broken and full powers must be returned to the people of scotland.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 29, split 1, because, while we cannot support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we, of course, do not oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it calls for the eu to shift its policies towards growth-led policies focusing on the creation of quality jobs in europe. it also highlights numerous key points, such as the need to have a refocusing of policies so as to fight against inequality, the need to move away from jobless growth, combating youth unemployment, giving smes adequate tools with which to operate, voluntary mobility and shifting taxation from labour to capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which welcomes the fact that the new policy mix adds investment to the previous priorities of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. it considers, nevertheless, that the annual growth survey (ags) should pay greater concern to aggregate demand and its connection to wage increases and social inequalities. it underlines that the top priority when it comes to reducing macro-imbalances should not be to increase current account surpluses, but rather to raise the growth, investment and employment rates, and to reduce the poverty rate.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on paragraph 29, split 1, because while we can't support calls for the eu to interfere in the tax and criminal law of member states, we of course do not oppose cracking down on tax fraud and illegal activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015. the report emphasises that europe must be committed to the model of the social market economy, ensuring sustainable growth in order to provide the next generation with jobs instead of debts. it must also be noted that the european social fund, with the youth guarantee, and the youth employment initiative have to be used fully and correctly to finance sustainable projects in order to fight unemployment, in particular youth unemployment. the share of young people not in education, employment or training (neets) has remained high. this is unacceptable and measures must be taken to tackle this issue.
in writing. ‒ i supported the employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015 as it sets out what more can be done at eu level to help member states return to higher growth levels. specifically, it proposes that the process be streamlined, with a view to increasing political ownership, accountability and acceptance of the process, to strengthening its credibility and comparability across member states and to improving the implementation of country-specific recommendations.
in writing. ‒ my socialist colleagues and i voted in favour of this report because it welcomes the commissionʼs new approach to economic policy with focus on growth and investment. the report also insists that reforms required from member states must be socially balanced and growth-friendly and that surplus countries must do more to relaunch growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ my socialist colleagues and i voted in favour of this report because it welcomes the commission's new approach to economic policy, with focus on sustainable growth and investment. the report also insists that reforms required from member states must be socially balanced and growth-friendly and that surplus countries must do more to relaunch growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the european semester process is sufficiently democratic, and in any event as a ukip mep i should vote against for reasons of principle. i am also concerned about the potential impacts of eu-wide minimum wage legislation.
in writing. ‒ this report considers the single market aspects of the economic governance framework, and in particular how these might be improved. in the past the commission has reported annually on progress as regards single market objectives as part of the annual growth survey. for 2014, however, this was omitted. the report is critical of this approach, and indeed notes that it strengthens the case for a more formal consideration of the single market pillar within the european semester, as previously called for by parliament. i can support this position and the conclusions drawn in this report, which are broadly pro-growth and anti-red-tape in nature
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, along with my s&d colleagues, as the single market is one of the defining characteristics of the european project and its exploitation needs to be fully realised so that we can all benefit from the sustainable growth and quality jobs it offers. creating a deeper and fairer single market will ensure european competitiveness and can promote social cohesion within europe, as well as attract investment and strengthen the european industrial base.
in writing. ‒ the single market remains one of the greatest achievements of the eu albeit much work has still to be done, as this report highlights. unfortunately, scotlandʼs continued membership of the single market is threatened by our remaining within the united kingdom. the westminster parties are increasingly following an insular and xenophobic agenda and an in/out referendum on the eu is looking increasingly likely. if and when such a referendum takes place, it is vital that each of the constituent nations of the uk can veto an eu exit if that is what their electors wish.
in writing. ‒ i support the report as it sends a strong message to the commission and member states and calls for the improvement of single market governance to promote and facilitate growth and jobs, but also to serve as a benchmark for commitment to structural reform in the member states. the report identifies a number of key sectors (smes, public procurement, the digital single market, free movement of goods, better consumer protection, assessment tools for single market integration) and provides recommendations on how to further improve them in order to unlock the potential of the single market, which could generate billions of euros in additional revenue.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which acknowledges the continuous increase in the use of the your europe and your europe advice portals, which should be able to provide the necessary information to anyone living, working or studying in or moving between member states in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which will enhance the single market in order to boost growth, competitiveness and the creation of new jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the report on single market governance within the european semester 2015. a very positive process has developed through single market hovernance within the european semester and the corresponding country-specific recommendations for a more competitive europe. single market governance generates quality jobs with equitable growth while better attracting investors. it must be emphasised that the single market strategy requires a holistic approach taking into account citizens’, consumers’ and smes’ concerns. projecting single market priorities into all policy areas would ensure the completion of a viable single market serving as a catalyst for economic recovery and sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ the report on single market governance within the european semester 2015 calls for action to unlock the potential of the single market (sm). i support this report as the sm is one of the most powerful engines at eu level and its potential needs to be fully exploited in order to boost growth, competitiveness and the creation of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i gave with my socialist colleagues our full support to this report as it believes the single market is one of the most powerful engines at eu level and its potential needs to be fully exploited to boost growth, competitiveness and creation of new jobs and the report fully reflects this.
in writing. ‒ i gave, together with my socialist colleagues, full support to this report as it believes the single market is one of the most powerful engines at eu level and its potential needs to be fully exploited to boost sustainable growth, competitiveness and the creation of new jobs; and the report fully reflects this.
in writing. – i abstained on this resolution as my party's focus is primarily on the safety and well-being of the child. it is our collective responsibility to ensure that there are genuine measures to protect children, but we must ensure such measures are appropriate and proportionate; to ensure that measures protecting children are balanced with children's rights to access information on the internet and utilise it for educational and communication purposes; to protect fundamental rights of people in relation to internet freedom; and to protect against the privatisation of internet security/policing. the resolution that we tabled was child-centred and protected the best interests of the child. moreover, unlike the resolutions from the other groups, the gue/ngl resolution respects legal due process and the separation of powers, balanced with the protection of children's rights and citizens' fundamental and democratic rights. for this reason we abstained on the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on this resolution because it causes a conflict between two fundamental principles: 1. it calls for more power to be given to europol and eurojust, organisations which lack the required democratic scrutiny, rather than to interpol. it calls for further eu funding in terms of education and campaigns, when such campaigns are best left to the member states. i oppose these points in principle. 2. it calls for tougher action to be taken against child sexual abuse, it recognises the scale of such abuse and opposes the possession and distribution of ‘child pornography’ (though the report also questions the use of such terminology). i am strongly in favour of these points in principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. this is one area where the eu can work together to protect the vulnerable. since this type of crime is not confined to individual member states, a europe-wide approach may be beneficial for organising cooperation between law enforcement agencies.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely essential that we work together, and do more, to protect our children, across all member states, and across the world, against paedophilia. the internet can be the source of very many good things - connections, creativity and business possibilities – but we must not ignore its negative sides. we must work to combat the growing rise of paedophilia online and the shady networks that hide behind advanced levels of encryption. we must not let them hide in the ‘shadowy web’ and prey on our innocents. more and better technological capabilities need to be employed by agencies and authorities to ensure that child pornography cannot be created and distributed in this secretive and so-called anonymous world. more must be done to enforce the 2011 directive to combat the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and to make sure that member states and europol are doing more to tackle and eradicate these horrific crimes, with more effective investigations and prosecutions. we must not and cannot fail our children.
in writing. ‒ whilst criminal law remains a national competence, there are clearly certain areas where pan-eu cooperation can greatly assist the fight against crime. child sexual abuse on the internet is one such area and i welcome today's report.
in writing. ‒ children are the most vulnerable group in our societies and they are permanently in danger due to new technologies and the internet. child abuse and online exploitation require our special attention globally as such threats can only be fought efficiently by the international community as a whole. the commission and the member states must act now with a comprehensive and coordinated european approach in order to ensure consistency in policy making and the resulting actions. full engagement and cooperation between all the relevant stakeholders is needed so as to share best practices and information, identify potential risks and threats to children, and raise awareness. children are our future and we must do our utmost to protect them.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal and welcome its call on the commission and the member states to further engage with representatives of alternative payment systems in order to identify means of better cooperation with law enforcement authorities, including training for more effective identification of payment processes linked to commercial distribution of child abuse material.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to signal my support for this resolution, which, i believe, makes a number of important recommendations in tackling the spread of child sexual abuse material. this is particularly relevant at a time when technological advancement has led to an increase in the spread of these images, particularly through the deep web and darknets. it is clear that law enforcement agencies, including europol, must be able to keep up with this advancement and to ensure that they have the technical expertise available to find and remove this material as well as to locate and to prosecute offenders. in particular, and as i have mentioned previously in my work in this area, it is important to emphasise that this crime can only be tackled through global cooperation, and references to the global alliance are particularly relevant. while europe has the resources and expertise to enable it to export its practices around the world, it is also important that member states be seen to be practising what they preach. therefore, i fully support calls for member states which have not yet done so to transpose the directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it gives the libe committee the mandate to carry out an implementation report on directive 2011/92/ec on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, given that fewer than half of the member states have fully implemented the directive more than a year after the deadline for implementation has passed (18 december 2013).
in writing. ‒ today the socialist and democrats group voted in support of the motion for a resolution on child sex abuse on the internet. sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including child abuse images, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular of the right of children to the protection and care necessary for their well-being, as provided for by the 1989 un convention on the rights of the child and by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the rights and protection of children online must be safeguarded and steps must be taken to ensure that any illicit content is promptly removed and reported to law enforcement authorities. there must be sufficient legal instruments for investigating and prosecuting offenders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution asking for a draft report by libe on the implementation of the directive aiming to harmonise criminal offences relating to sexual abuse committed against children, the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography throughout the eu and establish a common minimum sanction for the offences.
blue-card question.– that was a very interesting speech, very well made. i note that you say we need to be more supportive and understanding of the democratic opposition in russia, which is absolutely right. but i wonder if you would agree with me that there is a slight danger, if we take too hard a line against a tyrant like mr putin, that it actually only helps to strengthen him, by building up his strongman position, if outside forces appear to be too strongly pushing against him? what is your view of that?
mr president, the parliament regularly – and rightly – draws attention to places where people anywhere in the world lose their life because of their political beliefs or because of the defence of human rights. today we mourn the death of boris nemtsov. we express concern that he may have died partly because he was prepared to be a different voice within russia on the current situation in ukraine. we say that because that is what he said himself in july last year in relation to death threats that he was receiving then. if international visitors are blocked from attending even the funeral, it gives little confidence that the investigation can be open to external scrutiny and will meet international standards. it is also difficult to believe in the guilt of the alleged suspect who has been arrested and accused of being a terrorist when that person has a record as a loyal deputy commander of an elite counter—terrorism unit in chechnya. to those in russia watching or reading this debate, we support forces of democratisation in your country, as in all countries. to those in government, that does not mean that we are against you. indeed, in this resolution we reiterate that we wish to restore relations with you. but this has to be based on respect for democratic values and the rule of law, principles which are mutual obligations as fellow members of the council of europe and signatories of the international convention on civil and political rights. as my group has said before, in an atmosphere where nationalistic fervour is being generated, we have to be careful of the language we use in order not to add to that further, but to challenge it. but we will speak out. boris nemtsov may have been silenced by an assassin’s bullet but we will not be silenced.
mr president, in 2006 i enjoyed a pub lunch in london with boris nemtsov. also present at that lunch were alexander litvinenko and boris berezovsky. these three had certain things in common. they were political opponents of president putin and are now all dead. two were murdered and one died in suspicious circumstances. mr nemtsov, of course, is just the latest in a long line of politicians and journalists murdered in russia and abroad. the finger of suspicion and the trail of polonium—210 always leads back to president putin. any russian brave enough to oppose putin’s gangster regime risks their liberty and life. how can we support them? the hope of democracy in russia is almost crushed. the world has to understand what it is dealing with in mr putin. the best short-term hope for everyone is that some of his more moderate colleagues can be prevailed upon to depose him, and the west must encourage them to do this.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, as war engulfs the middle east with the emergence of terrorist isis, and ukraine is being destabilised by an aggressive russia, the global status quo that we had all become familiar with has radically changed. these are both foreign and domestic threats, as the high representative has pointed out, common to all eu member states, and our governments understand this phenomenon and seek cfsp common policies only when appropriate – such as tough economic sanctions against russia and iran. my group, the ecr, is particularly delighted by the strong wording shown in solidarity with ukraine. the emerging threats now seen in the european neighbourhood region increase the importance of diversifying our member states’ energy supplies away from the exclusive sourcing from russian gas in particular. i welcome this emphasis and the emphasis being placed on an eu future energy union. i also welcome the brok report underlining the vital importance of nato in our collective defence and, as a friend of taiwan, the improvement in the far east of cross—strait relations. calls for more efficiency and value for money in the external action service are also welcomed, as is the push for better language skills for eu diplomats, particularly in arabic and russian. we need nevertheless to find a cfsp approach that respects the national sovereignty and interests of our member states, but also one that is able to identify common threats when necessary, to seek the coordination which is more effective than 28 member states acting unilaterally or alone.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, foreign defence and security policy is one of the few remaining bastions of sovereignty for the 28 member states, but for how much longer? we have a high representative, an external action service, a military staff, a defence agency, eu battle groups and eurocorps – the list goes on. now president juncker calls for an eu army at the very moment that this report calls for a more ambitious foreign and security policy. to whom would you expect these troops to swear their allegiance? an eu foreign policy is unworkable at best, and irresponsibly dangerous at worst. member states have very different foreign policy needs and concerns. do you people honestly think that britain and spain can ever share a foreign policy while spain continues its blatant aggression around gibraltar? do you people really think that it is sensible for spanish military planes to deliberately spook civilian airliners landing in gibraltar? you have a civilised duty to chastise spain for such aggression, but – of course – you won’t and that is just one of the many reasons why britain will withdraw from this place and thrive as an independent nation state, free from the shackles that eu membership places upon us.
madam president, this week we had the commission president, mr juncker, blatantly calling for a common european army to, and i quote: ʽallow europe to take on responsibility in the world and to send a clear message to russiaʼ. i have no doubt that if we had an eu army now it would be losing thousands of troops in ukraine in a futile exercise to prove that the eu is a powerful empire. it is always a bad military tactic to divide your army, but this report would divide nato and the eu. the brok report calls for coordination of defence budgets, an eu arms trade authority, common eu defence attachés and a permanent eu headquarters – the very headquarters proposal that was voted down in the council just over a year ago. nor is it, i fear, a coincidence that all our national armed forces are being slashed. the true purpose is to destroy our national ability to act independently so we have no alternative but to pool and share our armed forces. these european defence moves are profoundly dangerous and must be stopped in their tracks.
madam president, i support mr brok’s report, but parliament will understand if i use this short speech to warn how the security threats facing europe underline how much my own country needs europe and how dangerous is the domestic debate which threatens britain’s future in the eu. how can the british prime minister call for tougher european action on russia, then himself threaten european unity to achieve it? what if we want to resolve the conflict between israel and palestine, but seek to undermine the eu’s role as a member of the quartet to achieve that? or walk away from the negotiating table for nuclear non—proliferation in iran, where britain has negotiated on behalf of the eu? or promote a trade agreement between europe and the united states, then threaten to remove british business from its benefits? how can the british government allow my country’s only aircraft carrier to be retired and rely on a french carrier, but then resist the development of common security and defence policy missions, which are both badly needed and which could help problems of overstretched defence resources? when in this debate we talk about common european values which underline our external policy, which is of these precisely is not a british value too? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, you said that you would take one ‘catch—the—eye’ from each group and i do not think efdd has had a ‘catch—the—eye’. i asked an hour and a half ago if i could be considered, and no one from our group has spoken in catch—the—eye.
mr president, thank you for this very generous ruling. it is dangerous to play games of bluff when one does not have a card in one’s hand. one has to able to back up strong words with action, otherwise one looks foolish. the spirit of margaret thatcher was referred to earlier on today in the debate on foreign policy. margaret thatcher and ronald reagan came from a position of economic and military strength – they could back up their words. the eu and its foreign policy cannot back up its words. margaret thatcher is not replaced by david cameron – he is no kind of replacement – and mr juncker is no ronald reagan. it needs to be pointed out, although i know you should understand this, that the eu is not a nation. you do not need to be doing these things. a foreign policy and – god forbid! – an eu army is folly of the highest order.
mr president, this report throws a spotlight on an array of fundamental rights abuses: violence against women and girls; female genital mutilation; violations of the freedoms of speech, press association and religion. sometimes, however, we think of these abuses as being somewhat foreign or distant. in northern ireland on 26th and 27th of this month, the publicly—funded equality commission will bring a legal case against ashers, a christian—owned family bakery business, for refusing to bake a cake inscribed with a political message supporting same—sex marriage. such an action, such a challenge to the right to exercise faith is deeply regrettable and a violation of article 9 of the european convention on human rights. the challenge therefore for legislators is to find, as lady hale, deputy president of the british supreme court, has described it, a reasonable accommodation for those who hold strong religious beliefs. we need freedom of conscience and religion, and i am glad that you have referred to it, high representative. i urge members of the european parliament to join with me in saying so.
mr president, in munich the european patent office (epo), under its current president, benoît battistelli, is disciplining suepo staff trade union officials for having the temerity to organise industrial action over breaches in human rights. sick employees have been dismissed on purported trumped—up charges and there are accusations of discrimination against disabled people being refused employment. the dutch court of appeal ruled that epo had a case to answer over breaches of the human rights of staff, but epo cited immunity and the dutch government intervened to prevent enforcement of the judgment. what is truly shocking is that not only does epo appear immune to both the echr and the commission, but also to this house, which is handing it judicial authority over patents within the eu under the single european patent. how can we demand global respect for human rights when we allow such blatant breaches within an organisation shortly to exercise judicial functions on behalf of the eu?
mr president, as parliament’s long—standing rapporteur on corporate responsibility, i want to use my speaking time to focus on the aspects of the report that call on the high representative to make implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights a key priority in the renewed action plan on human rights, and i would also like to thank mr lambrinides for his personal support in this policy area. it was europe which created the idea of governmental national action plans on the guiding principles, now adopted by president obama, but i hope ms mogherini will assist all of our own member states now to complete theirs. i hope she will initiate a process of peer review by member states around their plans, and will herself undertake an overall review as parliament has asked. following on from the current french proposal, i ask her to consider european requirements or recommendations on how businesses can demonstrate due diligence on human rights in their global supply chains. as i am proud to have championed the directive on corporate non—financial reporting now agreed, with its specific reporting obligation on human rights, i ask the high representative to both support implementation of this framework, but also to champion the new sustainable development goal that ban ki-moon is supporting to ensure that that is a global, not just a european requirement. i hope that as vice—president she will work with dg justice and its commissioner to ensure better access to justice for victims of corporate human rights abuse worldwide. this is a rich agenda, and many in business now accept their own responsibility to respect human rights; it is our duty to help them to do it.
madam president, two months ago this house discussed the crisis in libya. at that time the peace talks were between the two main factions and were being brokered by the un in geneva under the auspices of bernardino leon as special representative. since then, isis has strengthened its position in sirte, from where it has launched attacks against the copts – murdering 21 men by beheading. most recently, isis has destroyed an oil facility in al—ghani where another eight libyans were killed and where nine foreign nationals were kidnapped, two of whom are eu citizens. the previous peace talks have broken down now and a fresh round of eu-funded talks, scheduled for rabat in morocco, looks set to be delayed at the request of the internationally—recognised government in tobruk. allowing libya to fall into chaos will result in it becoming a failed state and a safe haven for jihadi terrorism very close to our own borders. this will not only jeopardise our security on our continent, but also lead to a massive influx of refugees across the mediterranean. member states need to look more seriously and closely now at a un—mandated restarting of military options and to support our regional allies such as egypt in containing this terrible problem.
madam president, libya has ceased to be a state thanks to the super war that the eu helped to create. people say they want dialogue. but which set of terrorists will they be talking to? the west intervened in iraq, afghanistan and libya – and the result? migration on an unprecedented scale leading to the most disgusting type of human trade: people trafficking. the eu’s porous borders and unchecked travel in the schengen area has led to the calais crisis. our own prime minister offers the french gbp 12 million of british taxpayers’ money to help alleviate the calais crisis. yet to do what? i have asked mr cameron the question, but i have received no reply to my letter of 17 january. i fear the lack of border controls will be responsible for the next isis attack, and on british soil, directly as a result of intervention in libya, which is now lawless and is a fertile recruitment ground for exporting more terrorism caused by the west. the king of jordan said in this place yesterday that the middle east problem is a regional one and i agree with him. let us hope you all do too.
madam president, libya used to be one of the arab world’s wealthiest countries. nearly four years after the fall of the gadaffi regime, the nation lies in ruins. a power struggle has torn the country apart, as rival groups viciously fight to gain control of libya’s vast resources. the energy industry, which was supposed to be the cornerstone of libya’s recovery and a success story of the arab spring, is on the brink of collapse. oil revenue levels are critically low and could bankrupt the government. there are reports that up to 1 million migrants are ready to head towards europe. this could cause a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions. un-brokered discussions surrounding a unity government is good news. nevertheless, a lasting outcome will require concessions, patience and, most significantly, libyan solutions to libyan problems.
madam president, to call the situation in libya unstable is an understatement to say the least! the situation is complete and utter chaos with no foreseeable solutions and only dire consequences. colonel gaddafi richly deserved his fate, but the intervention of britain and france was done without thought for the consequences. the west started out by supporting gaddafi’s opponents, only to find that what replaced him is even more savage and barbaric. the moral of the story is that britain should not get involved in military adventures unless it is clearly in our national interest, has a clearly identified military objective and there is some idea of what the outcome and the unforeseen consequences might be. instead, we allowed ourselves to get sucked into a piece of eu foreign policy vanity that has unleashed a vision of hell in the shape of armed and unrestrained islamic extremists who know no moral or humanitarian restraints.
madam president, can i start by thanking our high representative, federica mogherini, for the excellent work that she is doing. i think it is important for us to understand that the european union does have a critical role to play on the world stage and it is good to see that, under her leadership, we are getting better and better at this. a number of my colleagues have touched on the difficulties that we are facing in libya and the dangers that we expose ourselves to in this. we need to make sure that we do actually work towards finding a resolution. i know that a lot of good points have been covered and i just want to say three things that we need to be looking at. the first is that, with the breakdown of the state government in libya, there are ordinary civilian people who are actually suffering; there is a shortage of food, shortage of medicines, etc., so we need to help them on that front. we also need to work on the idea of non-interference from other states, and we need to work for reconciliation and for a national unity government.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, with the rise of isis in syria and iraq, and islamist terrorist attacks occurring in europe, cooperation with our allies in the gulf and the wider arab world is more important today than ever in combating international terrorism. the arab league can do much to stem the causes of jihadi terrorism at the roots. a more proactive approach in restricting the funding activities of certain religious charities that are in fact financing terrorism, restricting the travel of known terrorists, and ceasing the promotion of wahhabi salafism across the globe are just three examples. this house was addressed yesterday by the king of jordan discussing the key role that his country is playing in the air campaign against isis. along with countries such as egypt, jordan is a great example in the region of what genuine military cooperation can look like. tunisia is also a good example and success story of what democracy can mean for the arab spring. finally, more also must be done to pressure those gcc states, notably qatar, that are funding and equipping directly or indirectly international jihadi terrorism.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i think the chamber has genuinely done a good piece of work on this resolution. i would explicitly praise mrs schaake for the work she has done in coordinating the different groups in its production, because this is a solid resolution that we have before us, where it could have been the blankest of blank cheques and the most mixed of mixed signals, because there were enough people trying to make it so. the subject is too serious for petty politics. the fight against terrorism and the cooperation of the eu with the league of arab states, as outlined in the memorandum of understanding, is a serious subject that deserves to be taken as seriously as indeed we have done, except that the memorandum has not been published. this surely sends the worst possible signal to our partner countries within the region. within the resolution, in recital d, we highlight that fact and in point 3 we explicitly call for its publication. there is cross-party support for that. i would be grateful for an explicit reaction to that call this evening. more widely, it is not a toothless resolution either. in recital i, we refuse to turn a blind eye to the shortcomings of our partners in that there are serious and systematic violations of human rights in member countries of the arab league states, because we cannot turn a blind eye to their failings. we also, in point 5, state that the solution to radicalisation is not simply military. the roots are far more complex than that, and any solution must be multifaceted and much more sophisticated in nature. in point 9 we explicitly say that counter-terrorism measures may never be abused to repress legitimate dissent. that again is a nod to the practices of some of our partner countries. in point 11 we stress the importance of cooperation between the eu and the league in the field of human rights because there are things to build on. we must do that by example. the regimes in charge of the middle east and north africa are indeed important partners and we do indeed need to deal with them. we do have a common aim. as we say in point 2 of the resolution, terrorism poses a direct threat to all countries and all people, regardless of their ethnic background, but our duty is to our values and to the people of the region, not necessarily the regimes in charge.
madam president, i fully support this agreement, but when the high representative tells the united nations that we can both fight terrorism and respect human rights, the agreement represents a true test of those words. will it lead to a review of anti-terrorist laws in the arab countries so that they stop being used against legitimate journalists and human rights activists? how will our cooperation with security forces avoid complicity in human rights abuses in countries where there is use of the death penalty and credible evidence of the use of torture, and how will our cooperation seek to eradicate these practices? what will this cooperation achieve in ending the direct funding of terrorism by some of the states themselves, and will our dialogue have an equal emphasis on tackling root causes which allow terrorism to breed, to combat radicalisation abroad as well as at home, to recognise that repression aggravates terrorism, rather than preventing it? the terrorist threat is real and we want cooperation with the arab states, but it is the terrorists who challenge the rule of law, and it is us who must always uphold it.
madam president, the clear and present danger posed by returning european jihadist fighters is a real one and likely to persist for many years to come. the returning wave of extremist, islamic fighters sends an undeniable message that counter-terrorism efforts have urgently to be reinforced across all member states and in cooperation with the league of arab states, particularly on security services – and that is a most helpful area. further to this, i encourage all member states to confront extremism by blocking hate preachers coming to their shores and by removing thousands of items from the internet that encourage or glorify terrorism. this is what the uk government is striving to do. in my capacity as chairman of the delegation for relations with iraq, i also welcome the words of king abdullah of jordan yesterday, as any counter—terrorism strategy to combat the evil of isil and other jihadist terrorist groups does need the full cooperation of islamic nations through the league of arab states. without this support our member states efforts to tackle islamic extremism are greatly undermined.
madam president, king abdullah said here yesterday that the crisis with islamic state is an ideological battle that must be fought and won within islam. he compared the is threat to the second world war, and described theirs as an expansionist ideology. he is quite right that it is not just a physical struggle, but an ideological war that can only be resolved in the islamic world by the moderate muslims defeating the extremists. it is a fact, however, that a number of islamic states fund is and other extremist groups around the world. it is estimated that more than half the mosques and imams in the uk are funded by saudi arabia and pakistan and these countries export their extremists to us. christendom needs to recognise the threat to its culture and way of life and tackle it head on in our own lands. we cannot rely on the arab league to do it for us.
madam president, terrorism is a global threat and only global cooperation can defeat the terrorist agenda and all those that support it. calling for an alliance between europe and the arab states in a fight against terrorism is, therefore, vital. i welcome the recently signed memorandum. there are many arab countries with good strategies for countering radicalisation and extremism and stopping terrorist funding. the uae, for example established the hedayah centre in abu dhabi. we do not have to reinvent the wheel; we can learn from their experiences. it is vital, however, that the cooperation avoids the mistakes of the past. the global war on terror after 9/11 involved measures that violated fundamental rights and international law. respect for human rights and the rule of law must not fall victim to combating terrorism; these must be the bedrock of it. many regimes have used repressive methods and emergency legislation to crush dissent. repression re-provokes discontent and radicalisation, setting off a cycle of violence. europe and the arab league states must pursue a comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy that tackles the root cause of radicalisation, with particular focus on the economic and social situation of the younger generation in many of these countries. young people must be inspired by values of mutual respect and inclusive society so that we stop the vicious cycle of violence. we need to work together as we are all facing the same threat.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would first like to say that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs will hold a hearing shortly on anti-semitism, islamophobia and hate speech in europe. i hope that hearing will take place during the day, at a time when people will be present, and not at this intolerably late hour. i have spoken about this with my colleagues ms hohlmeier and ms wikström, and i am sure other colleagues from other political groups will find it quite extraordinary – and that, with all respect to you, madam president, you will communicate with other colleagues about it – that the issue of the moment, anti-radicalisation, should be discussed, and our commissioner, for whom i have the greatest respect, should deliver a communication on it and hear reactions, with virtually no one listening, and that it will be reported tomorrow to very few people. this is not tolerable. why is it not tolerable? because the issues we are discussing are so complex. we are discussing anti-semitism, islamophobia and an issue which really has not been discussed enough, anti—radicalisation. we all know that anti-semitism and islamophobia are issues of the deepest complexity. jews and muslims have existed for generations in europe and the millions of jews and muslims in europe, who now have to face the intolerable attacks which my colleague has described, are going about their daily lives and facing these issues because of a tiny minority. we know these issues are complex, but the job we have to do in the european union is to see what competences we have to make lives better. we understand that, with the race equality directive, the council framework decision on racism and xenophobia and all these other tools, we have a job to do and we will do that job. however, anti-radicalisation is an issue which we are just beginning to understand. the european union will have a role to play in this, and so will member states. it is a deeply complex issue and, when we find out what it is all about, it will have to be discussed, not at the last minute – 11 o’clock – but among all of us, and not just in one committee but right across this house. when we have this discussion, it will cut across economy, culture and politics, and it will not be confined to one political group. this must be discussed right across the political spectrum, because jews and muslims will continue to live in the european union together – that is how it will always be, whatever else will be said in this debate tonight – in unity. i hope that we will treat this issue much more seriously than we are doing tonight, and i am sure all my colleagues will agree. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, as the grandson of a polish jew who fled his home town of oświęcim, latterly infamously known as auschwitz, at the beginning of the last century, i say that the time has come to face up to the reality of anti-semitism today. with western european jews being shot in schools, museums and places of worship, we need to be honest with ourselves about the root cause of this cancer. since the despicable murders in paris, attacks on british jews have risen threefold. political correctness and multiculturalism have failed. with thousands of jews now fleeing europe, what does this say for our liberal and tolerant values? they said 75 years ago that enough is enough. i am now saying that it is unacceptable that synagogues are increasingly looking like fort knox. as edmund burke once wrote, ‘for evil to happen, good men must do nothing.’ enough is enough.
mr president, we have seen an increase in anti-semitism, islamophobia and violent extremism. these worrying trends must be equally addressed by the eu. anti-semitism is not new in europe and unfortunately it is still a reality for many european jews. similarly, muslims are experiencing hate harassment, violence and discrimination. there is a need for eu legislation. preventive legislation must be put in place through passing tougher laws. the commission should propose a framework for national strategies to combat discrimination in a comprehensive way and to promote full inclusion. there is a crucial need for interfaith dialogue and cooperation. i have seen the success of this work in my own home town, manchester, where jewish and muslim communities are working together to combat hatred and discrimination. anti-semitism and islamophobia cannot be seen as a jewish-muslim problem, but rather a european issue jeopardising the democratic fundamental rights and the values of all eu citizens. embracing diversity is the only way forward if we are to find hope.
madam president, the fact that few want to recognise is that the rise in anti-semitism is in direct relation to the rise in fundamentalist islam. there are many verses in the koran calling on muslims to make war on unbelievers. egypt’s minister of religious endowments reportedly said in march 2014 quoting from the hadith ‘we hope that the words of the prophet muhammad will be fulfilled: ‘judgment day will not come before the muslims fight the jews, and the jews will hide behind the rocks and the trees, but the rocks and the trees will say: o muslim, o servant of allah, there is a jew behind me, come and kill him’. if you want to understand the rise in anti-semitism, that is a good place to start. there is some hate speech for you. now regarding islamophobia, a phobia is defined as an irrational fear. many people have a perfectly rational fear of fundamentalist islam. would you deny them the fear that leads to self-preservation?
in writing.– europe is facing an enormous challenge of reacting to racial tensions as we witness the rise of both anti-semitism and islamophobia. at a time when tensions are running high, our duty is to stand up to closed-minded prejudices, and we must remember not to lose ourselves in statistics but to tackle the real causes of these problems. while attitudes towards muslims are negative across europe, we’ve also seen anti-jewish sentiment growing steadily and it has to be addressed. we need to be vigilant within our communities and not allow for anti-jewish sentiments to develop just as much as we need to protect muslims from damaging anti-islam discourse. it should also be noted that the european network against racism has called on the european parliament to create a database to assess the rise of islamophobia as we lack statistics on this, while legal tools have been created in various member states to fight against anti-semitism. we must collate all evidence of all hate crime on the same basis if we are to tackle all such prejudice effectively.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the commission should note that the title of this item is ‘sustainable exploitation of sea bass’. the operative word you are using is ‘exploitation’. that is all you are interested in. eleven years ago, the british government banned pair trawling for bass. our then fisheries minister asked the french government to do likewise. they refused. we went to the commission to ask for a ban. the commission refused. so our fishermen halted pair trawling – and the french, with the connivance of the european union, simply took our fish from our waters, and now you have the nerve to punish our fishermen and sea anglers for your own crimes. the common fisheries policy, based as it is on outright naked theft of natural resources by giant businesses under the protection of the eu, is an unmitigated economic, ecological and environmental catastrophe. all of you sitting here – although there are not many this morning because perhaps you are just busy signing on – in this chamber spouting smug platitudes about caring for the ecosystem, looking after the impoverished of our world and acting as good stewards of the planet, i have news for you: you are being used by this giant corporatist scam and you are blinding yourselves to the truth. in the words of johnny rotten, ever get the feeling you have been had? the biomass of our bass population has dropped by 80% and you are going to bring in vindictive, ill-thought-out, unenforceable legislation. british sea anglers have been calling for years to save the bass and you have done nothing because you are owned, lock stock and barrel, by vested interests. i call on the uk government today to leave the callous, corrupting, catastrophic common fisheries policy, restore a proper 12-mile limit and institute a 200-mile exclusive economic zone, as guaranteed by the european law of the sea. the sooner the common fisheries policy is gone, the better. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i should like to ask mr finch a straight question. do you or do you not support the resolution of this parliament, regardless of how we got here? it was interesting to hear your views, but do you support this resolution or do you not?
blue-card answer. – ms girling, i do not consider myself a vichyist. i say the uk should leave the eu, leave the common fisheries policy – anything else is merely putting off the inevitable. i hope that answers your question.
blue-card answer.– the first answer mr cadec is ‘yes’– i have nothing better to do with my time. second answer is ‘yes’ – of course i am looking for each nation to have a responsible attitude and to look after its own natural resources.
mr president, i welcome this resolution and i thank mr cadec for bringing it forward and for his work. in june 2014 ices published its report on bass stocks, which clearly illustrated the need for action. in the following december council, the uk government submitted a reasoned request to the commission for emergency measures. i would like to congratulate the uk minister george eustice for taking this stand. there is one part of the resolution that i would like to highlight this morning. that is to ask members to give further and careful consideration to recreational fishing. in the uk i believe the recreational sector has taken a sensible approach to the issue by showing a willingness to accept conservation measures, such as the bag limit, but we need to have further discussions on exactly how that will work and we need to make sure that the measures are proportionate and workable. in my region, the south-west of england, many of the recreational fishing boats are actually crewed and owned by fishermen, either doing it on the days when they are not able to go to sea because of eu conservation rules or because they have moved out of fishing altogether. i would like to support that and make sure that we do not give the wrong messages about their work.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the ecr supports the continued independent presence of individual member states at the 28th session of the united nation’s human rights council. although it does accept that collectively the eu plays a very active role in the work of the council in proposing resolutions and making declarations on the protection and promotion of human rights and freedoms and establishing and developing the system of un special rapporteurs on human rights issues. i am proud, personally, to say that my country, the uk, is living up to its commitments to the un to safeguard fundamental human rights at a time of escalating violence, particularly in the middle east. isis continues to broadcast its acts of horror in syria, iraq and libya, murdering, torturing, raping and even selling children – which was highlighted a few weeks ago by the committee for the rights of the child – as well as mass public beheadings and the burning of people alive in cages. i would also like to put on the record that the ecr does not support the calls in paragraph 68 of this resolution for the eu to re-engage with item 7 of the hrc which, in our view, unfairly singles out israel for special discrimination.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, a great deal has been achieved in the protection of human rights across the globe since the formation of the un human rights council. it is right that we celebrate the successes that we have already had. we must however acknowledge that there is still a long way to go. throughout the globe there is still areas where severe violations of human rights occur. indeed it looks like in some ways the west is also moving backwards. in the uk, and in many other areas of europe, we are being too afraid to stand up for the rights of women and girls, who should be protected from the barbarous act of female genital mutilation, over fears of breaching cultural sensitivities. whilst it is right that we look around the world and act through international organisations such as the un and the very generous act of giving money to charity, it is important we also get our own house in order and to no longer be afraid of speaking out against abuses when they happen within our own borders.
mr president, i will be brief but i will start by welcoming the commissioner to this debate and saying, commissioner, that i appreciated your comments earlier on. i will focus particularly on paragraph 68 – not try to repeat points that other colleagues have made – because this paragraph is significant in the palestine—israel relations debate. it calls on the eu and member states to publicly express support for the un commission of inquiry into gross human rights abuses within the occupied palestinian territories (opt). now, there is a sense of momentum behind this. last february even, for the first time, the foreign affairs council identified the human rights situation within the opt as an eu priority. i think we are going to see these findings in june, after the israeli elections, so i would ask you, commissioner, in the spirit of both the foreign affairs council and this resolution, what will the commission, the external action service, do to reflect the spirit of paragraph 68 and the foreign affairs council conclusions and, given that there will be recommendations from this independent commission of inquiry, could you commit to their being implemented by the external action service to recognise past abuses and prevent future ones?
mr president, daesh or isis has embarked upon a campaign to eradicate all traces of religious and faith communities other than those representing its own twisted interpretation of islam. christians, yazidis, turkmens, shiites and other minorities have been subject to this terror campaign. their methods are barbaric; they are killing or expelling inhabitants and destroying their holy places, including unique internationally—recognised heritage. this is a process of cultural cleansing, comparable to that of cambodia’s khmer rouge back in the 1970s – a vile attempt to take the region back to ground zero. just last month, isis butchered 21 egyptian coptic christians in libya, and abducted around 22 assyrian christians in syria. as chairman of the iraq delegation, i salute the courage of local iraqi forces, the kurdish peshmerga and the iraqi armed forces in fighting the evil of isis, such as at tikrit. i encourage international partners vigorously to support military moves against isis, right across the region, to protect these endangered minorities.
author.– mr president, attacking pastoralists’ right to roam on their own land is an issue that has come up time and time again. the masai mara serengeti ecosystem supports the highest concentration of wildlife on earth. it is estimated that masai territories provide habitats for 80% of east africa’s wildlife. the masai and other pastoralists see themselves as custodians of the land they inhabit and they play an essential role in conservation and environmental protection. they are ideally placed to be the eyes and ears to protect vulnerable species from poaching and other wildlife crimes. rather than being considered a threat to conservation, the masai and other pastoralists must be included in plans to protect this fragile land on which they have co-existed peacefully and sustainably for millennia. tanzania must respect the numerous promises they have made to these people over the years. pastoralists all over the world need protection from land encroachment and so the commission and member states must put pressure on the tanzanian government to make sure it brings forward legally binding laws to protect the rights of the masai, not sell off their land to the highest bidder to create a playground for the rich and powerful.
mr president, the ecr group is formally requesting a roll call vote on paragraph 20 – both parts of the split – and on recital n.
mr president, the ecr group would like to have an oral amendment to paragraph 36, to become a new paragraph 36a. it is the paragraph concerning the discrimination and persecution of christians and other religious minorities. we would like to add the words ‘and ethnic’ to it. i understand it will have broader support across the house if we add those two words so it reads ‘and ethnic minority groups’.
mr president, i think there is a linguistic issue here. it is not ‘persecuted’. i think ms costa means ‘prosecuted’. you do not persecute a war crime.
mr president, i too supported this report because it makes a strong call for the european union to shift its policies towards growth-led policies which focus on creation of quality jobs. it also highlights a number of key points such as the need to have refocusing of policies to achieve the 2020 targets, the fight against inequality, the need to move away from jobless growth, combating youth unemployment, giving smes adequate tools to operate voluntary mobility, and shifting taxation from labour to capital. this report mentions introduction of a minimum income scheme throughout the eu and stresses that the employment and social considerations in the european semester should be put on a par with macroeconomic ones. i believe that the employment and social aspects of the european semester and annual growth survey are fundamental in order to put europe back on its track.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report as i believe the single market is one of the most powerful engines at eu level, and its potential needs to be fully exploited to boost growth, competitiveness and creation of new jobs. the report fully reflects this. this report sends a strong message to the commission and the member states, and calls for improvement of single market governance to promote and facilitate growth and jobs, but also serves as the benchmark for commitment to structural reform in the member states. in my region, the west midlands, the report identifies a number of key sectors: smes, public procurement, digital single market, free movement of goods, better consumer protection and tools for single market integration. i really applaud the recommendations as to how to improve these in order to unlock the potential of the single market. that could generate billions of euro in additional revenue.
mr president, i am pleased that parliament voted on this resolution on the fight against child sexual abuse on the internet, because it is critical that we act efficiently and decisively to eradicate this horrible practice that ruins the lives of millions of children worldwide every year. in the uk, it is estimated that a staggering 1 in 58 children will suffer contact sexual abuse before turning 18, with approximately 10 000 new child victims being reported each year. as internet availability grows worldwide, online child abuse is increasing at an alarming rate. online child sex offenders commit their atrocities and offences across borders; therefore we cannot let borders stop us from stopping them. the eu directive on combating this is crucial. harmonising criminal offences in this field is also critical, and we must ensure that we have common minimum sanctions.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy, i would like to make it clear that i abstained on the final vote – which was not a roll-call vote. i believe that the public have the right to know how i voted on this resolution. i did, however, support many of the amendments.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because we have the obligation to speak out on any incident in which people have to pay for their political beliefs or activities in defence of human rights with a price that is far too high: their life. we have reason to believe that there is a possibility this might have been the case for boris nemtsov. therefore we demand an independent investigation into his murder that meets international standards. through this resolution, we are reaching out to thousands of activists in russia who face repression because they are standing up for what they believe in. at the same time, i find it regrettable that some groups have been trying to use this resolution to address issues concerning russia that go beyond the murder of mr nemtsov and the issue of repression against democratic activists. at all times it is to remain clear that we are reaching out to the russian government to restore relations based on respect for democratic values and the rule of law. but, once again, this will never stop us from speaking out. boris nemtsov may have been silenced by an assassin’s bullet, but we will not be silenced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this resolution as it strongly condemns the killing of boris nemtsov and pays tribute to the role he played as an opposition leader, founder and leader of the political movement solidarnost, and leading critic of president vladimir putin. his killing is one of a growing number of unresolved politically—motivated murders and suspicious deaths perpetrated in russia since 1998, including anna politkovskaya and alexander litvinenko. members of the european parliament are calling for an independent international investigation into the murder. boris nemtsov committed his life to a more democratic, prosperous, open russia and to strong partnerships between russia and its neighbours and partners.
in writing. ‒ i am shocked about the murder of russian opposition politician boris nemtsov and am very concerned about the direction russia is moving in, turning into a state of repression, hate speech and fear. i therefore supported the resolution condemning the assassination and calling for a full, rapid and transparent investigation to be conducted into it. i am also deeply concerned about the attacks against political opposition figures, independent human rights organisations and civil society groups in russia. stronger support for them is necessary.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the joint motion for a resolution on the murder of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia. boris nemtsov was a strong advocate for a modern, prosperous and democratic russian federation, open to the world. his killing is one of a growing number of unresolved politically motivated murders and suspicious deaths perpetrated in russia since 1998. members of the european parliament are calling for an independent international investigation into the murder.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it condemns the assassination of an opposition leader in russia.
in writing. ‒ the russian federation has destabilized its surrounding region, provoking a conflict in eastern ukraine and supplying the ‘separatists’ with arms. i have been highly critical of russian involvement in ukraine and have repeatedly called on moscow to fulfil its international commitments, including the upholding of political rights and freedom of speech. the recent political assassination of boris nemtsov, a vocal critic of putin and an influential opposition leader, shows how dangerous the political situation within russia has become. russia, as a member of the un, has an international duty to protect political rights – an excuse ironically used by putin last february to justify the russian invasion and annexation of crimea. the rights of crimean tatars have been heavily violated in crimea since russia’s illegal annexation. russia sadly is a nation where political figures, journalists, and civilians fear censure, imprisonment, or death for criticizing the government, so has no right to use its ‘international commitment to protect political rights and the freedom of speech’ as a justification for the military invasion of the territory of a sovereign nation.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues, i voted in favour of the statement because in an atmosphere where nationalistic fervour is being generated, we have to be careful in the language we use in order not to add to that fervour, but to challenge it. this european parliament regularly and rightly draws attention where people anywhere in the world lose their life because of their political beliefs or the defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues, i voted in favour of the statement because in an atmosphere where nationalistic fervour is being generated, we have to be careful in the language we use in order not to add to that fervour but to challenge it. this european parliament regularly and rightly draws attention where people anywhere in the world lose their life because of their political beliefs or the defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ as i do not believe that the role of high representative should exist, it seemed consistent to vote against this report. in addition, there is much of the text with which i disagree.
in writing. ‒ as an mep for northern ireland, i have seen at first hand the vital role played by our armed forces in keeping our people and our communities safe from terrorism and other threats to security. i am immensely proud of our servicemen and women, who make so many sacrifices and put themselves on the line to serve their country both at home and abroad. and that this why it saddens me when i see reports such as this one calling for a pooling of resources, a coordination of defence budgets and most unhelpful of all – a permanent military operational headquarters in europe. national governments must retain complete sovereignty over matters of national security. this means spending of at least 2 % of gdp on defence. it means the capacity to develop new and advanced defence technologies without intrusion or limit. of course, there does remain room and indeed a need for cooperation between eu member states and further afield. the international coalition formed to fight isis is indicative of this. however, this does not in any way strengthen the argument that we would be best served by an integrated, federalist and diluted defence agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report from the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament. i did so because it contains a deeply worrying reference to an eu military hq. nato is the cornerstone of our defence policy and i do not believe that the eu should have any role in defence matters.
in writing. ‒ the annual report takes stock of the most important developments in the realm of the common foreign security policy (cfsp) over the last year, in terms of the institutional set-up of the cfsp, horizontal issues, such as human rights, non-proliferation and the spread of eu values and geographical issues concerning the main areas of the cfsp: enlargement, transatlantic relations, relations with russia, the eu neighbourhood, the middle east and asia. i abstained from the vote on this report as it recommends setting up an eu standing army, which i oppose
in writing. ‒ i agree with large parts of the report, as it argues that the eu has yet to unleash its full potential to shape the international and security environment and needs a more proactive and credible foreign policy, based on a joint perception of interests and threats. however, the report calls for the establishment of an eu permanent military operational headquarters, which could lead to creation of an eu army. i do not agree with this, i therefore abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ labour meps abstained from the final vote on the annual report from the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament. the report discusses eu foreign policy, preserving and strengthening the european political and legal order and coordination between the eu and us on foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ labour meps want britain to play a full part in europe’s common foreign policy but abstained on this report because of our long-standing opposition to the idea of a permanent eu military headquarters. as our shadow europe minister stated this week, we must be clear that the labour party values our sovereignty over national defence and does not support an eu army. we also question the wording in the text on so-called eu ‘membership’ in the united nations, which is not part of our current thinking for un reform.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it is a consensual one, with broad agreement between the four political groups: epp, socialists & democrats, alde and greens. the report takes a hard line on russia’s actions vis-à-vis ukraine and a balanced approach to the middle east peace process, with an emphasis on the two-state solution. the need to focus on the fight against isis and address the mounting challenges stemming from state failure in syria, iraq, libya and sahel are also stressed.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it is a consensual one, with broad agreement between the four political groups: epp, socialists & democrats, alde and greens. the report takes a hard line on russia’s actions vis-à-vis ukraine and a balanced approach to the middle east peace process, with an emphasis on the two-state solution. the need to focus on the fight against isis and address the mounting challenges stemming from state failure in syria, iraq, libya and sahel are also stressed.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion; once again, i agree with much of the report but not with other parts. fundamentally, i could not vote for it because it gives the eu too much power over certain issues which i do not believe should be determined by the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report rightly throws a spotlight on fundamental rights abuses in an array of political contexts, and the very extent of these problems should send a message that not enough is being done to uphold them. we think of those christians and members of religious minorities in areas of middle east, and indeed right across the globe, who face persecution both through violence and institutionalised barriers to work, education and health. we think of the many more situations where freedoms to associate, to speak freely, and to report events have been withheld to the detriment of democracy and decency. and in my own constituency, i think of the efforts being made to eliminate the freedom to confer with one’s conscience in the running of private business. these problems are serious but they are not insurmountable. at the very heart of any solution must be the principle that the rights of some in society cannot be secured by removing the rights of others. and that embodies why i cannot support this report - because of the insatiable and unacceptable desire to toss away the right to life of the unborn child.
in writing. – i supported this report which, through its thematic approach, provides a clear and comprehensive overview of crucial human rights issues in the world and, coinciding with the conclusion of the human rights cycle initiated in 2012 by the eeas, sends a strong signal to the external action service on key actions that need to be taken to promote human rights in our foreign policies.
in writing. ‒ human rights are part of the european union's ethical and legal basis and for the labour party meps this is a major political commitment on foreign policy. i therefore very much welcome the report. it is an important evaluation instrument that parliament uses and it calls inter alia for binding, enforceable and non-negotiable human rights clauses to be included in the eu's international agreements, common standards for the reception of refugees to be guaranteed, and a human-rights-based crisis-prevention element to be developed and included in the forthcoming revised european security strategy.
in writing. ‒ today we voted in favour of the panzeri report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 and the european union’s policy on the matter. this report is a forward-looking analysis of the eu’s activities in this policy area. the need for continued reflection on parliament’s own practices has been highlighted in relation to the mainstreaming of human rights into its activities and to the follow-up of its urgency resolutions on breaches of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the action of promotion of human rights in our european external action. furthermore, i welcome its support of western saharan rights and the new themes of the report, including legislation on same-sex marriage or same-sex civil unions.
in writing. ‒ this year’s annual report on human rights in the world contains some good and constructive paragraphs on issues like: support for human rights defenders and the international criminal court; action against torture, discrimination and persecution of ethnic and religious minorities; women’s and children’s rights; and the fight against corruption, human trafficking, sexual violence and exploitation. a number of ecr proposals are included, such as on how business and human rights are not necessarily two opposites, but can reinforce each other. an important ecr suggestion adopted is the warning against continuously expanding the catalogue of human rights, including with unrelated issues, or politically or ideologically controversial ideas, as this only undermines the acceptance of human rights as universal. however, the report also contains issues the ecr group cannot support, or which are subject to a free vote for its members, such as an institutionalized ep presence at the un, calls for the abolition of the death penalty, including in the us, and abortion and same-sex marriage. finally, this report swerves into many other policy areas such as development, trade, fiscal policy, climate and asylum and migration policies, which is something the ecr strongly opposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my european parliament labour party colleagues in favour of this report because it introduces an international tax on financial transactions for additional source of funding for development and one requesting the revision of the dublin regulation when it comes to refugees and common asylum package.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my european parliament labour party colleagues in favour of this report because it introduces an international tax on financial transactions as an additional source of funding for development, and requests the revision of the dublin regulation when it comes to refugees and the common asylum package.
in writing. – there are a number of positive aspects to this resolution. it talks about the importance of respecting fundamental rights in ‘counter-terrorism’ strategies and the need to deal with root causes. it calls for stopping the death penalty and the use of torture, and warns against the exploitation of ‘counter-terrorism’ strategies to attack opposition movements in some countries. it also calls for publication of the memorandum of understanding between the eu and las, which i agree would be in the interest of transparency and democratic accountability. however, there is no recognition that the recent rise in violent extremism in iraq and syria is related to the us—led invasion of iraq in 2003 – which was supported by some eu member states such as britain – as is the subsequent destruction and destabilisation in that country and the surrounding region. i believe this is a significant omission. if the serious threat of violent extremism is to be stopped affectively, an honest and sufficient analysis of how the threat developed is required. considering the positive aspects of the resolution and its shortcomings mentioned above, i voted ‘abstention’.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support efforts to counter terrorism, but once again this report refers to the eu’s role in foreign affairs and defence, which is better dealt with by the member states (which often hold differing philosophies and therefore should not have to act en bloc). i therefore abstained.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because there is a clear need for joining forces with arab states in tackling terrorist groups that are threatening the security of people all over the world. yet, such cooperation can only be truly effective if it also addresses repressive policies used by governments of arab league member states against their citizens. not only would it be morally reprehensible to be complicit in the human rights violations conducted by authoritarian governments in the region, it would also be highly counterproductive. if there is one lesson to be drawn from the arab spring, it is that repression breeds chaos and terrorism, not stability. if we do not want to repeat the mistakes of the past, this agreement will need to prioritize a genuine review of anti-terrorist laws in the arab countries, in order to stop governments from using those laws against citizens who engage in legitimate protest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as terrorism is a global threat and only global cooperation can defeat the terrorist agenda. an alliance between europe and the arab states in a fight against terrorism is therefore vital. we can learn from the experiences of arab countries that already have strategies in place for countering extremism. europe and the arab league states must pursue a comprehensive counter—terrorism strategy that tackles the root causes of radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is a global threat and only global cooperation can defeat the terrorist agenda and all those that support it. calling for an alliance between europe and the arab states in a fight against terrorism is therefore vital and i welcome the recently signed memorandum. there are many arab countries with good strategies for countering radicalisation, extremism and depriving terrorist groups from financing. we can learn from their experiences. it is vital however that the cooperation avoids the mistakes of the past. respect for human rights and the rule of law must not fall victim to combating terrorism. these must be the bedrock of it. europe and the arab league states must pursue a comprehensive counterterrorism strategy that tackles the root causes of radicalization with particular focus on the economic and social situation of the younger generation in many of these countries. young people must be inspired by values of mutual respect and an inclusive society, so that we stop the vicious cycle of violence. we need to work together, as we are all facing the same threat.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on relations between the eu and the league of arab states and cooperation in countering terrorism was passed today in the plenary session. terrorism and violent extremism are major threats to security and freedoms at global level. the resolution highlights the importance of cooperation between the eu and the las in the field of human rights, emphasising the significance of continuing to promote and protect human rights and uphold all human rights for all. these human rights include the right to economic and social development, freedom of expression and freedom of religion or belief while also promoting the values of tolerance and coexistence between different religions and rejecting exclusion, extremism, incitement and dissemination of hatred and violence.
in writing. ‒ this seems to be a particularly unworkable piece of legislation. i note that the amendment to paragraph 7 was split into two parts: the first set out the problems with introducing a total allowable catch; the second wished to introduce one anyway.
in writing. ‒ sea bass are currently in serious decline and there is a vital need to address the way in which they are fished to prevent the complete collapse of the stock. i welcomed the european commission's recent emergency measures to protect sea bass during the crucial spawning season - but having to resort to reactive emergency measures only served as a reminder that we need real pre-emptive and evidence-based policy-making for sea bass. recovering bass stocks in europe is in the long term interest of fishers - but without a long term plan we risk requiring to implement emergency measures on a reoccurring basis - or worse – total stock collapse. protecting sea bass is not just important for commercial fishers - but also for recreational sea anglers - who contribute an estimated 200€ million a year to western europe's coastal communities. i therefore support the resolution's call for a longer term strategy to address the ongoing issues and call on the european commission to propose a multiannual management plan for the stocks of sea bass.
in writing. – the uk delegation fully supports this resolution on the situation of sea bass. we are deeply concerned about depleting stock levels and we welcome emergency measures which have been applied to the north sea, english channel, celtic sea and irish sea. the uk delegation has voted against those amendments and paragraphs which refer to the need for eu measures for recreational fisheries; we believe that we need more scientific data on how recreational fisheries contribute to sea bass mortality and careful consideration of whether eu measures on anglers are necessary. in the uk, sea bass anglers have shown a willingness to take sustainable measures and are responsible fishers tending to fish only for mature sea bass. the uk delegation believes that a bag limit on recreational fisheries at this current time would be disproportionate and be to the detriment of the conservation work of the uk’s anglers, the jobs it offers and the enjoyment it brings as a favoured pastime.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because there is an urgent need to protect sea bass. according to scientists, sea bass in the celtic sea, channel, irish sea and southern north sea are suffering from a rapid decline that risks leading to a collapse if no action is taken. the current fishing mortality is almost four times as high as the stock can sustain. in name of biodiversity, this situation needs to be urgently reversed. sea bass, moreover, is one of the most valuable fish on which many people in the fishing industry, especially small fishing enterprises, depend.
in writing. ‒ sea bass are currently in serious decline, which is why i voted in favour of this report calling for a longer term strategy to address the recovery of european sea bass stock. there is a vital need to address the way in which they are fished to prevent the complete collapse of the stock. protecting sea bass is not just important for commercial fishers but also for recreational sea anglers, who contribute an estimated eur 200 million a year to western europe’s coastal communities. i therefore strongly support the resolution calling for european union management measures for commercial and recreational fisheries based on precise evaluation and scientific data.
in writing. ‒ sea bass is one of the most valuable fish on which many fishermen, especially small fishing enterprises, depend. according to scientific advice sea bass in the celtic sea, channel, irish sea and southern north sea suffers from a rapid decline that risks leading to a collapse if no action is taken. the current fishing mortality is almost four times as high as the stock can sustain. i therefore strongly support the resolution calling for union management measures for commercial and recreational fisheries based on precise evaluation and scientific data.
in writing. ‒ labour meps and the s&d group voted in favour of the resolution on sustainable exploitation of sea bass. scientific information on the stock status of sea bass is insufficient, in particular the data available on precise boundaries, stock migration paths and the places of reproduction of the sea bass. this resolution calls on the commission and the member states to evaluate the status of the stock of sea bass and its delimitation, migration of the species and the exact places of reproduction.
in writing. – this resolution prioritised a wide range of human rights issues such as social and economic rights, women’s rights, civil and political rights, rights of the child, lgbti rights, and human rights in the context of climate change. it also expresses full support for the role of the international criminal court. it referred specifically to a number of challenges such as socio-economic rights concerning access to food, water, healthcare, education, housing etc. and the need to address extreme inequalities as a means to fight poverty. it also identified tax evasion and the mismanagement of public goods as a violation of citizens’ rights which, it pointed out, diverts funds from investment in much-needed public services. it also condemns violence against women in war and peacetime and recognises the vital role of women in peace-building. i welcome palestine being named a priority country and the denouncement of israel for not cooperating with the un commission of inquiry into gaza. unfortunately, the resolution does not state clearly that the illegal occupation and blockade are the root cause of the conflict in palestine. overall however, the resolution was much more positive than negative. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ much of the work done by the unhrc is good; however, i could not support the text of the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. if the eu is to be a credible global actor, it is crucial that eu member states actively oppose any attempt to undermine the concept of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights, defend the practice of special procedures and help ensure adequate funding of the office of the high commissioner for human rights, as well as regional ohchr offices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because human rights are the cornerstone of the european union. the implementation of the un’s guiding principles on business and human rights must be a key priority in the renewed action plan on human rights. i support the call for the eu delegations in new york and geneva to increase the coherence of eu policy through timely and substantive consultation, in order to present the eu’s position with one voice.
in writing. ‒ human rights are part of the european union's ethical and legal basis and for the labour party meps this is a major political commitment on foreign policy. i therefore supported the resolution calling the eu delegations in new york and geneva to increase the coherence of eu policy through timely and substantive consultation in order to present the eu’s position with one voice. the promotion of human rights must be a cornerstone of eu relations with other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the implementation of the un’s guiding principles on business and human rights must be a key priority in the renewed action plan on human rights, including better access to justice for victims of corporate human-rights abuses worldwide.
in writing. ‒ today the socialist and democrats group voted in support of the resolution on the eu’s priorities for the un human rights council in 2015. the resolution highlights horizontal issues such as civil, political, social and economic rights and women’s and children’s rights. in addition, it sets out eu priorities on country-related issues in ukraine, syria, libya, myanmar, egypt, mali and south sudan to name a few. it calls on eu member states to actively oppose any attempt to undermine the concept of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i did not feel that it was appropriate for me to support the amendment condemning the actions of the us federal government in terms of imposing sanctions against venezuela. the nature of the amendments in general were quite complex, and the report seemed to me to be particularly emotive. i therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution as a whole (and also abstained on two amendments; amendment 6 and amendment 3). i did this because, while i fully understand that the resolution offered a compromise between different political groups on the situation in venezuela, and while i am aware of the dire situation in that country, i felt that overall the resolution offered a very partial picture of developments. in particular, its coverage of the position of regional-level actors and their views on current developments in venezuela was incomplete and gave, in my view, an inaccurate impression.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the motion on the situation in venezuela. i am concerned by the current political situation there as member after member of the opposition is arrested and intimidated. the current government is not respecting the rights of its citizens. it is essential that the government allows free and fair elections this year.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in venezuela because the recent arrest and detention of veteran opposition leader antonio ledezma and reports of the alleged intimidation and mistreatment of leopoldo lópez and other imprisoned opposition activists are unacceptable. 2015 is an electoral year for venezuela, and it is crucial that we send a strong signal to the government that elections need to be free and fair. this cannot be achieved unless repression of political activists is stopped and restrictions on media are lifted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am deeply concerned about the deteriorating situation in venezuela and the use of violence against protesters. i support the call to the venezuelan authorities to immediately release all peaceful protesters that are arbitrarily detained, and to put an end to the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned about the deteriorating situation in venezuela and the use of violence against protesters. i therefore supported the resolution calling for the venezuelan authorities to immediately release all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and fundamental rights, and to put an end to the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela. there is deep concern about the deteriorating situation in venezuela and members of the european parliament condemn the use of violence against protesters in the country. we urge the venezuelan government to cease the political persecution and repression of the democratic opposition and the violations of freedom of expression and of demonstration and to put an end to media censorship.
mr president, your announcements included no announcement that a member was leaving a political group or joining a new one, or indeed had been expelled from a political group. may i take it, then, that janice atkinson remains a member of the efdd group and has not been expelled by them, despite the recent revelations about the misuse of her expenses?
president of the european council.– mr president, honourable members, let me first of all convey my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of yesterday’s germanwings tragedy. i would also like to express my sympathy and solidarity with the governments of all affected nations. our thoughts are with you today. now i would like to report to you on the spring european council which was an absorbing summit with a long, heavy agenda. we took the first concrete steps towards an energy union with all its dimensions. our discussion focused mostly on energy security. leaders agreed that in future all gas contracts, both between governments and businesses, need to be more transparent to make sure that they comply with our rules and do not endanger our energy security. the details will be settled in legislation to be proposed very soon by the commission. i hope our ambition will be supported by this chamber. we also agreed to explore how european companies might cooperate to buy gas in bulk. this is a timely discussion. our dependence on external suppliers is a major weakness and i am glad leaders wished to address it. finally, we agreed to step up europe’s climate diplomacy ahead of the paris climate summit in december. in the presence of the ecb president, mr mario draghi, we discussed the european economy. the outlook for our economy is improving, at least according to the latest forecasts. oil prices have declined faster than expected. the ecb is implementing quantitative easing. the euro has depreciated. however, no monetary initiative, no matter how big, will work without structural reforms at national level. the time to reform is now when the wind is blowing in our favour. we still have around five million unemployed young people in the european union, so nobody can sit down and relax. and neither should this house relax in its efforts to agree the european investment fund that will help us provide the investment that europe needs so badly. we had a good debate on ttip. the aim remains clear: to reach an ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial agreement by the end of 2015. leaders shared the view that we now all need to communicate the potential benefits to the public. in our sessions dedicated to foreign affairs we discussed both the eastern and southern dimensions of our neighbourhood policy. europe should continue to use its diplomatic weight and to act as a stabilising factor. based on the contribution of foreign ministers, the european council debated the security situation in libya. we are determined to support fully the united nations talks aimed at securing an immediate ceasefire and the establishment of a government of national unity. we gave a clear sign that we stand ready to support an agreement as soon as it is reached. we also discussed the rise in uncontrolled migration in the context of libya. the european union is already taking some measures and these should be stepped up. the european council also welcomed the intention of the commission to submit a european agenda on migration in may. however, the single best step to control migration is the re-establishment of central authorities in libya. our meeting took place the day after terrorists attacked the bardo museum in tunis, where many lives were lost. we were unanimous in our support of tunisia’s young democracy, its economic and social development, as well as in the fight against terrorism. tunisia is a shining example of hope and therefore we need to do our best to support it. together with the high representative, i will visit tunisia and the region next week to review the state of play and see how europe can help to stabilise the situation. now turning to the east. this was the last meeting of leaders ahead of the eastern partnership summit in riga. we confirmed our commitment to the six partner countries and highlighted the need to focus on strengthening democratic institutions. finally, we agreed to step up our support to the peace process in ukraine and to link our sanctions regime to the complete implementation of the minsk agreement. that is the best hope for ensuring that the deal brokered by president hollande and chancellor merkel is respected. we agreed that if the situation worsens we are ready to take further measures. in the meantime, the european union will continue to support reform efforts in ukraine. i commend parliament’s current work to finalise financial assistance to kiev. let me close with a word on greece, which is so important to the future of the eurozone and the european union. i held an informal meeting on greece at the request of prime minister tsipras. the aim of this meeting was very simple: to rebuild mutual trust and avoid misunderstandings. i think we were successful in this. we agreed to speed up the implementation of the euro group agreement of 20 february 2015. prime minister tsipras promised to present additional reform plans soon. let us hope that this clears the way for a solution. given that the format of this meeting received particular attention, let me mention that i asked the european council if members preferred to discuss the greek question at a euro summit, to be held immediately if needed. leaders did not think this was necessary, or indeed useful at this stage. in the coming weeks and months, i will continue to do all i can to help in this difficult situation. i look forward to our debate.
president of the commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to begin by echoing what you said at the beginning of the debate in the introduction: the plane crash yesterday has affected us all deeply. and we are equally concerned by the events in tunisia last week, in the country where the european spring is sprouting and will continue to sprout. sometimes it's like that, and it's actually sad, that other people's death makes us better. sometimes events like this make us better people. but we forget that too quickly. i would like us to remember for a long time the events that you have remembered here, and i think you are right to do so. the european council has been a very difficult one, and i am sure that the council will be able to take account of the fact that the european council has been a very difficult one. i am not talking about the commission's investment plan, but about the accompanying effects of this plan. oil prices have been corrected down by 50%. this is a 100 billion euro a year economic boost. if we have to adjust the investment plan upwards by 100 billion euros, we do not know how to do it. but it happened! the price of oil has fallen by 50%, the exchange rate of the euro against the us dollar by 30%. the two together make a crazy economic program. it is up to the governments, the commission and the council to make full use of these new opportunities for economic receptivity! i was very pleased that the european council - as the council of finance ministers had done before - had given its approval to the european commission's investment programme. i have noted, mr president, that in your own statements to the european council you have indicated that the european parliament will make a great effort to bring the legislative procedure to a successful conclusion by mid-june. this does not mean that everything the commission has proposed has to be 'rejected' by parliament one by one. but we need a decision by the european parliament by mid-june to enable us to implement and launch this investment programme as quickly and efficiently as possible. i would like to point out once again, however - and this may irritate some of you - that we urgently need this initial guarantee of eur 16 billion in budgetary resources and eur 5 billion in eib funds. we must be able to present investors with a plan that will provide this reinsurance option. how this is done in detail is not only a matter for parliament but also for the council. i am confident that we will find ourselves, in a reasonable way, not somewhere in the middle, but in the centre of common sense, so that all this can be done as it must be done. we have agreed in the european council on the basic lines of the energy union on the basis of a list of proposals from the european commission which will soon be put to the legislative procedure. this is a very important matter for me! i have here in this parliament - but in strasbourg, which is actually the seat of parliament - on 15 july, when we discussed the priorities of the then new commission - it is getting older and older, mr timmermans is also growing older, he is getting bigger the older the commission gets - it was made clear that the energy union is an important priority for the then new commission, which is now aged. we have delivered, that was also the wish of parliament, we have done that, and this is an important matter! there are four fundamental freedoms in the european treaties - in the treaties of rome - and i would like us to add a fifth, without having to make any changes to the treaties: we also need the free movement of energy in europe! we must therefore put an end to the national silos and the geoblocking of energy supplies. i was very pleased that we had a summit in madrid a few weeks ago with the french president and the portuguese and spanish prime ministers to ensure the future energy supply of the iberian peninsula. portugal is on the periphery of europe without being a peripheral country, because portugal is an important member state of the european union, but in terms of energy policy the supply situation in portugal, and in some cases also in spain, is very unsatisfactory. we are trying to remedy this through the policies that have been put in place. we have talked about ttip and i have asked the prime ministers to make it clear what the situation and the point of view are. and all the prime ministers, whatever they announced in their capitals after the european council, have committed themselves to the objective that we should conclude this free trade agreement by the end of the year if possible. this does not change the fact that we all - not just some - think that we should not, should not, want to sacrifice fundamental european values on the altar of this free trade agreement. but it's being negotiated in detail. and the commission has been instructed to report regularly to the european council on the progress of the talks. as far as greece is concerned, i would not like to elaborate too much on this but we had this meeting under the leadership of donald tusk for the reasons indicated because, during the last european council, the member states did not like to discuss this in a formal meeting of the euro group at the highest level. so the president of the council decided to form a smaller group, mainly to put people in touch who never speak to each other. it was very helpful. we think that the greek government would be best inspired to present us with a list of immediate reforms to be undertaken. prime minister tsipras, with whom i spoke last night, is ready to present these reforms by the end of this week or the beginning of next week. these reforms will be examined by the groups which have been created a technical group, a fact-finding mission in athens and the so-called brussels group, a more politically-oriented group. then after the assessment that will be given by the three institutions imf, commission and ecb the euro group will be in charge of putting this under its mediation in order allow us to proceed in the best way possible. i must admit that i have been very pessimistic in recent weeks because no progress whatsoever was being made, but now we are back to normal and i think we will come to a conclusion which will be in favour of both greece - and we love greece - and the european union. mr president, on monday next i will be returning with federica mogherini to kiev. the president of the ukrainian republic does me the honor of asking me to co-chair the council of ministers. it is true that i have not chaired a council of ministers for many months, and i must therefore go to kiev to do so. on this occasion, i will take account of the numerous contributions notably by rebecca harms to the position of the parliament on ukraine. i have also noted, rebecca, that the green group was not, to my great sadness, enthusiastic about the commission's proposals on the energy union. i will therefore ask the commissaire de venir to explain himself to you.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, this was supposed to be a summit to demonstrate the strength and the resolve of the eu. instead, i am afraid it demonstrated a weakness of will. i have to say that i take no pleasure in saying that, for my group wants to see the eu encouraging cooperation in dealing with issues affecting people in the eu countries right across the eu; not kicking the can down the road. on energy union and energy policy, we secured a commitment to the proposals put on the table but the detail was put off until another meeting. we need to demonstrate – as ms grossetête said – how we are going to encourage diversification of energy sources, better interconnection and energy security so that our countries no longer have to rely on unpleasant regimes in the middle east or on russia. on russia, we welcome the decision to give minsk a chance but we have been far too slow amongst us in responding to russian propaganda. and have we forgotten crimea? what message is the council giving to russia? it seems that the eu is saying to russia: invade first, negotiate second. this was the summit that was supposed to focus on the economy. but the most serious issue holding back our economies – the eurozone and greece – does not feature once in the council conclusions. the major issue was relegated to a late-night discussion with a select few leaders. but all 28 countries have a stake in the euro’s future, so why was greece not discussed in the council? we were told at the time that this was because the council president thought that the issue might be ‘a little bit too hot’. i have to be fair and i have to understand, mr tusk, that you are a servant of the council and therefore you were reflecting that decision of the leaders. but i also have to ask you, if council meetings are not going to discuss the most pressing issues of the day because an issue is considered ‘a little bit too hot’, then what is the point of the council meeting? so, mr tusk, our plea to you – and our plea to the leaders of these summits – is: show that you have the will to stand up to russia; show that you have the will to take the tough decisions about the euro and show that you have the will to provide solutions. nothing should be considered ‘a little bit too hot’ for the council table. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– one other item that was raised on the sidelines of the summit by prime minister cameron was the impact that changes to eu vat rules that were agreed seven years ago are having on micro-enterprises that have taken advantage of the internet to set up small businesses. i understand, however, that the reaction of one of the commission president’s spokesmen when he heard this matter was going to be raised was: ‘oh, there is just an election on.’ and one of his spokesmen sent you a tweet blaming the member states. do you think that is the right attitude for the commission to take, or is it in conflict with their clear aim to create a digital single market? yet, when it comes to people raising concerns about obstacles, they simply blame someone else.
blue-card answer.– mr lewer, i understand, asked a very clear question about the commission’s attitude to the concerns of many digital micro-entrepreneurs who have had these eu vat rules imposed on them. i know mr verhofstadt and his group have also shared that concern, so this is not really a party political issue. let us be quite clear about that. i have had some very good meetings with the commission. it is probably no secret that mr timmermans and i had dinner the other night and we discussed this issue ... (exclamations and laughter)it clearly was a secret, mr timmermans. i have now completely reduced your credibility in this parliament – i have ruined your career! mr juncker did not have dinner with me, otherwise that would have been the end of his career as well. despite the constructive meetings i have had with various people in the commission, however, i have to say i was a little disappointed by what i considered cheap and shoddy tweets from members of mr juncker’s team, and also someone calling themselves the press officer for eu better regulation. this morning there was a cross-party breakfast with meps from a number of different groups sitting down with these entrepreneurs, and they were disappointed with the tweets coming out of the commission. my plea to you, mr juncker, is please talk to those ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question to mr verhofstadt. – mr verhofstadt, i am glad to see that you are now fighting against the vat moss regulations which are having such a crippling effect on small businesses in my constituency, but i have to ask you this: you have had seven years to get this right. why have you not? does it not say something about the structures in this place where it is possible to sleepwalk into a nightmare like this one?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, today i was going to talk about issues ranging from greece to the eu’s energy policy, but when travelling in i thought all this can wait because i do not believe today should be about political point-scoring. we will have many opportunities to debate and no doubt disagree, mr juncker, over the next four years, but today my opinion should be about quiet and unified reflection. what happened yesterday in the french alps represented a sickening loss of life and one which has been felt right across our great continent. as you all know, i am thoroughly opposed to the european union and its institutions but i am actually proud to be a european. indeed, the fact that my colleagues and i do not believe in the structures of the eu does not make us lesser europeans. i would therefore, on behalf of my group, like to offer my condolences firstly to germany. sixty-seven of the 144 passengers who have died were german citizens, including 16 children returning from an exchange trip. over 40 passengers are believed to be spanish, and as someone who has lived and worked in barcelona and someone who still has friends in that great catalan city, my thoughts are with them at this difficult time. also on board that tragic flight were britons, dutch, danes and belgians. this tragedy has touched us all. we must hope for the sake of the families that the salvage operation will be swift and that they get the answers that they need as quickly as possible so that they can understand why this aeroplane fell to the ground and their loved ones lost their lives. i think i speak not only on behalf of my group but i am pretty sure the whole of the european parliament when i say that our thoughts and our prayers are with the friends and families of those who so tragically lost their lives in the french alps yesterday. god bless. (applause)
blue-card question.– you drew attention to the importance of interconnectors between countries in providing connections for transferring renewable energy across the union, but when i am out visiting small renewable energy producers they are much more concerned about upgrading to the grid so that they can put the energy they produce back into the grid network. do you think that is also an important part of what we need to provide in the energy union?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, to the surprise of many, tax has become an issue of great interest during the past year. as corporations and wealthy individuals have found ever more intricate ways to avoid paying their fair share, taxation has become divorced from economic activity and, as a result, public coffers have been starved of revenue and governments have been unable to invest in necessary infrastructure or provide support for their needy citizens. we have reached the stage where it is vital for the protection of our civilised societies that we address the issue of tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. tax avoidance is also undermining the single market, as the commissioner pointed out. transnational corporations are able to cut sweetheart deals with governments and to organise transfer pricing deals that could never be possible for the small businesses that are the backbone of our local communities across the european union. in our role as the voice of small business and strong local economies, greens demand that completing the single market should include the requirement of fair taxation across the union, to ensure fair competition between small businesses and multinationals. in november last year, after the emergence into the public domain of the scandalous deals that had been agreed by president juncker while he was prime minister of luxembourg, there was a motion for the removal of the whole commission. however, in spite of deep concerns about certain commissioners, the greens’ position was that they should be given a chance to resolve these problems before being dismissed. we challenged juncker to ‘act or go’. last week, we saw the commission’s proposed action and it will not surprise you to know that we were deeply disappointed. the proposal on information exchange between member states is necessary and welcome, clarifying an obligation which has existed since the 1970s but which has not been properly applied. if it had been applied, it would have ensured that scandalous ‘tax rulings’ could not have been kept concealed. however, this is only one of a number of measures that could and should be introduced to improve transparency on taxation. so i am pleased to welcome the many strong statements focused on addressing the issue of tax competition and tax avoidance included in this year’s annual tax report, especially the repeated call for a compulsory common consolidated tax base. i also welcome the establishment of the special committee to investigate tax affairs across the union. however, as a green, i was deeply disappointed that, in this year that will culminate in the paris negotiations on climate change, our most important amendments – calling for ecological taxation, the ending of tax advantages and exemptions granted to the aviation industry, and the phasing out of other fossil fuel subsidies – were rejected. we should all remember that tax, when used strategically, can provide incentives to move our communities towards the sort of future we imagine for our children, a future of sustainability and justice.
madam president, i remember sitting in this chamber five months ago in the immediate wake of the luxleaks scandal, and we were back together again two months ago in the wake of another scandal – swissleaks. so i am delighted that finally we have a first response from the commission. i strongly welcome the measures that the commission has recommended on tax rulings, but, frankly, we need far more action if we are truly going to meet the expectations of our citizens. i have to say i was very concerned that the commission’s communication was lukewarm in relation to country-by-country reporting of profits by multinationals. the parliament has long supported this measure, and i hope that the commission will let us continue with our internal work promoting it. i also hope that the commission will be publicly more supportive of immediate action to move ahead with country-by-country reporting. we already have evidence that there is no negative impact from country-by-country reporting in relation to extracting industries and banking. we also know it would have a positive impact on smes, who at the moment are not competing on a level playing field with those firms who can shift their profits and hide where economy activity is truly occurring. so i hope the commission will strongly support the urgent need for country-by-country reporting, and that it will also support the other measures that traditionally we in this chamber have argued for, not just the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) – and i support what the commissioner said on this today – but also black-listing of those who evade tax and the tax advisers who help them do it, and having a common definition of tax havens.
in writing.– i cannot possibly support this report, which seems to believe in everything that is wrong with the european union. we do not want more tax harmonisation. we do not want a financial transaction tax to drain more money out of the united kingdom economy. we do not want the eu to get involved with the member states’ sovereignty and their right to set their own tax policies. we do not want the eu to do things which should be done by the oecd. and we do not want the eu empire-building with its own resources either.
in writing.– i would like to raise the recent changes to eu rules on vat and the impact they are having on micro-businesses across europe selling services online. when these changes were negotiated, over six years ago, the aim was to prevent large companies from gaining a competitive advantage by basing themselves in countries with lower vat rates. this should have helped small online businesses to compete. unfortunately, these rules are now having the opposite effect. requirements, including keeping customer records for 10 years and providing proof of buyers’ locations, have proved excessively burdensome for many sole traders selling services such as e—books and craft patterns online. the message from across europe is clear: the commission must take swift and decisive action to reduce the burden of this legislation on our smallest and most innovative firms. digital entrepreneurs will form the bedrock of the eu’s future economic prosperity and competitiveness. we cannot afford to throttle them with excessive regulation.
madam president, of course i agree with those who say that, in a time of war and given the capital flight that ukraine is facing, we have no option but to give them support and to express our solidarity with the people of ukraine. however, i think it is vital that we do not just give the money, but that we insist, as the commission has indicated it will, that human-rights reforms are genuine in ukraine, that corruption is properly tackled in ukraine, that democracy is properly embedded in ukraine and, above all, that the money does not end up in the pockets of oligarchs. i have heard people say that, of the eur 1.83 billion, a billion will go to the people of ukraine and eur 0.83 billion will end up in the pockets of the oligarchs. that cannot be allowed to happen, so the commission must monitor this money very closely. we will hear, of course, that the situation in ukraine at the present time is difficult, but i think the message we have to send as a parliament is that the crisis ukraine is living through at the present time should be the catalyst for fundamental reform, not the excuse for postponing it.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, firstly on behalf of the ecr i would like to extend my condolences and prayers to the families and the victims of the 18 march bardo museum shooting in tunis. twenty-three people died in this brutal assault, where gunmen were randomly firing with automatic weapons at innocent visitors and tourists. islamic state has claimed responsibility for the attack, and whether or not it is true that it was actually carried out by isis – we do not know – the attack shows the threat posed by jihadist terrorists to the democracies of the world. tunisia is a muslim-majority country, and the lone success story of the arab spring. these terrorists do not seem to care who they kill: muslims, christians or jews. they only care about one thing, and that is the destruction of those they view as an enemy of their utopic caliphate. these men are evil. they are a threat to everything this parliament and the eu stands for. it is our duty in this house and in the european union to do everything we can in our power, both economically and in security terms, to help the fledgling democracy of tunisia.
mr president, i am very concerned to see the principle of subsidiarity properly upheld. we must respect the competence of member states and their freedom to set their own minimum wages and address their own social policy issues as they see fit. under no circumstances should this debate be used as an opportunity to call for an eu-wide solution or an eu framework on minimum wages. these are exclusively the preserve of the member state and should be addressed at member state level. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must defend freedom to provide services and the free movement of goods. this is key to the proper functioning of the single market. the new rules in germany require prenotification and extra record-keeping, and i think such conditions have brought in additional burdens and administrative requirements which are of grave concern to small businesses. i sympathise with these concerns but it is crucial that we are very clear as to what we are asking the commission to do and what things the commission has the competence to do. interfering in minimum wages is not one of them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– my concern is that we should maintain the single market – and indeed we still have not completed the single market – which is important, but it is equally important, and possibly more so, that the rights and responsibilities of member states and the subsidiarity principle be recognised by europe. i am very concerned that europe is trying to do more and more. we listened to the commissioner say we must do the things that we can do better together, but not get involved in detail. my view is that social policy should be the prerogative of the member states.
mr president, my briefing note from my excellent assistant says in capital letters ‘complex issue’, and the commissioner, when she opened the debate, said the legal assessment is complex. you would think from listening to the debate tonight that this was a complex issue – but it is not complex at all. this is an incredibly simple issue. we are asked to believe that unless this measure is contested the haulage industry in north-eastern europe will collapse under the weight of the costs. but comrade liberadzki said in passing that actually the average effective wage for truck drivers in poland is eur 8.5 per hour, the cost of these vehicles is eur 100 000-plus, the diesel costs thousands of pounds and the tolls are hundreds of euros, so the notion that this cost can cripple these industries is ridiculous. the posting of workers directive is clear: you pay the rate for the job in the country where you are doing business.
madam president, the roma are one of the largest ethnic groups in the eu, and international roma day is without doubt an important opportunity to recognise the historic and persistent discrimination against them in europe. roma suffered hugely during the holocaust, and were systematically persecuted, deported and killed. it is vital we recognise the suffering they endured and distance ourselves from the sickening comments we heard here this evening, which were nothing short of hate speech. today roma continue to suffer discrimination in many ways, including in education, healthcare and housing, and in ignorance from meps in this chamber. it is vital that all citizens have fair and equal access to provisions which are, after all, human rights. in ireland, in some instances, the roma community has been subjected to racism and violent threats. in 2009, loyalist elements disgracefully intimidated, threatened and eventually forced roma families out of their homes in south belfast. sinn féin condemns these attacks in the strongest terms, and we continue to defend the rights of the roma community in ireland, in europe and elsewhere.
madam president, in the committee on employment and social affairs yesterday we talked about the gbp 42 million of commission pre—financing that is not being taken up by the uk government and used in the uk and, on monday, labour mps went to meet commissioner crețu and talk to her about the gbp 718 million of eu structural fund money that is not being taken up by the uk government and used in the uk for the social and economic purposes for which it was intended. earlier this afternoon in this chamber we voted on measures under the european globalisation adjustment fund, as we often do, providing billions of euros of assistance to get people back into work across the eu, but not in the uk, which has never made an application. the message to the tory government of the uk is clear: it is our people who are suffering the consequences of your obscurantist isolationism.
madam president, 20 years has passed since the celebrated arafat-rabin handshake on the white house lawn, 20 years since the establishment of the palestinian national authority, and 20 years since the formal start of the palestinian-israeli peace process. yet it was clear from my third visit to palestine, and my third refusal into gaza last week, that this year marks 20 years of shattered hopes and unfulfilled obligations. in the run-up to the israeli elections netanyahu exposed the 20-year pretence that he was a genuine partner for peace when he stated that there would never be a palestinian state. a hard-hitting eu report warns that jerusalem has reached a dangerous boiling point of polarisation and violence. jerusalem is more divided today than at any time since israeli occupation began in 1967. the report calls for tougher european sanctions against israel. without doubt the eu needs to impose such sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of greece, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i am entirely against the use of these funds since they do not respect the principle of subsidiarity as social welfare is firmly a member state competency. additionally, i do not believe that this represents any value for money and it is a waste of resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support the provision of additional assistance to workers suffering from major structural changes in world trade patterns. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ by way of an explanation of my vote, i considered this an appropriate cause for the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of greece to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. it refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 046 000 from the egf and concerns 928 redundancies in the reference period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of greece, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to offer assistance in greece following 928 redundancies across 16 enterprises. the funding shall contribute to the costs of measures for the reintegration of 120 redundant workers into employment. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-funded covers three main areas: redeployment, training and promotion of entrepreneurship (including support for enterprise creation and collective projects). the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers into the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ by way of an explanation of my vote, i considered this an appropriate cause for mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of greece. a total amount of eur 3 746 700 from the egf will be used to support the reintegration into the labour market of 705 workers made redundant from attica publishing activities. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ the socialists & democrats group voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of antónio marinho e pinto. the charges are manifestly unrelated to the position of antónio marinho e pinto as a member of the european parliament and arise from his former position as president of the portuguese bar association.
in writing. ‒ this report related to the waiver of parliamentary immunity of ivan jakovčić, who is a croatian alde mep. by waiving an immunity defence, parliament does not formulate any opinion on the probability of guilt or not of the mep in question. it only looks at applying the rules on immunity (rule 7 of its rules of procedure and protocol no 7 to the tfeu) to these cases. when it finds that defamatory statements are made that have no direct and obvious connection to the performance of their duties as an mep, then it decides to waive immunity so that court proceedings in the national member state can be brought or continue. on this basis, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the request for waiver of the immunity of ivan jakovčić. the statement made by mr jakovčić does not have a direct and obvious connection with mr jakovčić’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament nor does it constitute an opinion expressed or a vote cast in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7.
i wrote it. the committee voted in favour of this report because it recognises that there is a need for a european domestic choice fund (edc) to provide opportunities for those who have been displaced by economic crises. the irish case is the first of 250 cases of fraud against lufthansa technik and the second of 200 cases of fraud against the host company. the influence of the dúnadh an chomhlachta is great in the local food and dance scene. it was a very lonely place that was under the misfortune of the low level of educational management. without laws, it is difficult to find jobs in the public sector. the commission has also decided to grant a loan of eur 2 490 758 to help people who have just started work in the education sector, which means that it will be easier for them to find jobs in other sectors. it usually takes at least 500 people to apply to the edc, but we welcome any major changes in the way people apply to the system.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of ireland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which refers to the commission’s proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. in order to mobilise the fund, the commission has submitted to the budget authority a transfer request. i voted in favour of this report as i support the idea of providing additional assistance to workers suffering from major structural changes in world trade patterns, when needed. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers into the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ by way of an explanation of my vote, i considered this to be an appropriate cause for mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of an application made by ireland. a total amount of eur 2 490 758 from the egf will go towards supporting the reintegration into the labour market of 149 workers made redundant from lufthansa technik. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted with the socialist and democrats group to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich. the charges against viktor uspaskich do not relate to an opinion expressed or vote cast by him in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament so article 8 of the protocol is therefore not applicable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of gabriele albertini. the case arises from opinions expressed by the member. the determining criterion for the enjoyment of immunity under article 8 of the protocol is evidence of a direct and obvious link between the opinions in question and the performance of parliamentary duties. a direct and obvious link has not been provided and the parliament has previously endorsed that mr albertini was not acting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. – it is clear that ukraine is facing a deteriorating humanitarian crisis and it is widely recognised that ongoing conflict there has caused this situation to become progressively worse. in this context it is disappointing that the commission proposal does not include a proposal for a political agreement for a peaceful resolution of the conflict. furthermore, the macro-financial assistance of eur 1.8 billion proposed by the commission is tied to austerity through macro-economic adjustments and structural ‘reform’. the proposal does not say how such structural ‘reform’ will improve the economy of ukraine, or how it will impact on its people, as it currently endures a conflict that has seen approximately 1.2 million of its citizens internally displaced. sinn féin welcomes efforts to assist ukraine in dealing with its humanitarian situation. indeed i voted in favour of amendments improving the commission proposal. however, given that the proposal is fundamentally based on a flawed austerity model, which i believe will not improve the humanitarian situation for the people of ukraine, i abstained on the overall legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported most of the amendments, which sought to introduce checks and balances to any financial assistance to ukraine. i do not believe that british taxpayers’ money should be spent on providing assistance to ukraine, or on an interventionist foreign policy, particularly in such a complex area. therefore, i felt it necessary to vote against the final resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed financial assistance to ukraine. europe must stand up to russia and its aggression towards ukraine. i fully support these measures as a means of solidarity with ukraine and its people. the european union, in this instance, can use its power to benefit its own and neighbouring citizens through this well-placed financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report along with my socialist colleagues to ensure that ukraine can avail of much needed macro-financial assistance. the ukrainian economy is experiencing several problems and if facing a serious crisis. the eu has consistently expressed its support for assisting ukraine in its economic and political stabilisation and reforms and this financial assistance is an expression of solidarity with the ukrainian people and of support for them as they move forward.
in writing. ‒ ukraine’s acute economic difficulties, due in part to long-standing structural shortcomings, have been aggravated by armed conflict in the east of the country, russia’s undeclared war and trade restrictions on it, and the escalation of a natural gas supply dispute between the two countries. i voted therefore in favour of the proposal, as it is important we help the country in the current extremely difficult situation in which it finds itself. it also gives a sign of solidarity with the ukrainian people and of support for their desire for a democratic and prosperous future, within a democratic country.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this to ensure that the much needed assistance to ukraine is actioned in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to provide macro-financial assistance to ukraine. the ukrainian economy is experiencing an acute and serious crisis. the european parliament has consistently expressed its support for assisting ukraine, the associated partner of the eu, in its economic and political stabilisation and reforms. today’s vote means we will assist the country financially in the extremely difficult situation it finds itself in.
in writing. ‒ the situation in ukraine is dire. the war in the east, with nearly 20% of ukraine’s gdp, nearly a quarter of the nation’s industrial output, and almost all of the nation’s coal production in the conflict zone, has been hugely detrimental to ukraine’s economy. the violent conflict in the donbass has crippled ukrainian production as well as its energy industry. the lack of coal has forced power plants to shut down, sending waves of blackouts across ukraine. this is a danger that affects not only those people living in the war-torn east, but also those living in the relative safety of the west. as supporters of peaceful, democratic rule, it is our duty to aide the ukrainian economy in its recovery. my group, the ecr, and i are happy to welcome the proposed macro-financial assistance to ukraine. the proposed aid of eur 1.8 billion in the form of medium-term loans will help ukraine cover part of its residual additional external financing needs in 2015 and early 2016 in context of the ongoing imf programme. it would be provided in the form of a loan that will be paid back and financed through a borrowing operation that the commission will conduct on behalf of the eu.
in writing. ‒ along with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of the resolution on macro-financial assistance to ukraine because the ukrainian economy is experiencing an acute and serious crisis, rooted in long-standing structural problems and aggravated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. after a new government took office in february 2014, its ambitious macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform programme need to be underpinned by eu macro-financial assistance (mfa) operations.
in writing. ‒ along with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of the resolution on macro-financial assistance to ukraine because the ukrainian economy is experiencing an acute and serious crisis, rooted in long-standing structural problems and aggravated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. after a new government took office in february 2014, its ambitious macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform programme needed to be underpinned by eu macro-financial assistance (mfa) operations. i visited ukraine in the years before maidan, and saw for myself the extreme poverty facing communities. i have continued to maintain contact with ukrainian civil society organisations, and know how important the relationship with the eu is, socially, economically, and politically.
in writing. – there were positive aspects to this report including the focus on tax transparency; however, much of what was being proposed lacked any real substance or force. if there was a serious concern with effecting real positive change in this field, the proposals would not have been a simple re-packaging of a failed economic paradigm. instead, there would have been concrete measures put in place in order to move towards real tax transparency. for my party, tax evasion and cross-border tax fraud is a major concern as untaxed income is considerably reducing our national tax revenues. as ireland tries to find a sustainable economic recovery it is crucial that we develop a healthier reputation as a transparent place to pay tax and face up to any changes necessary to create transparent global tax system where multinationals cannot escape their duties to countries, including developing countries. there were also objectionable provisions in this report, which attempted to interfere with member states’ taxation policies. direct taxation is a matter of national competency and the eu has no role in dictating or interfering with irish taxation policies or indeed in other member states tax policies. it was for these reasons that i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report covers tax efficiency in the european union. as a ukip mep, i believe that systems would be far more efficient if we were not in the european union, and i cannot support the measures proposed for the collection of own resources. i note that a financial transaction tax, which would disproportionately harm the british economy, is also proposed. consideration of international taxation is better done by the oecd than by the european union. this report has very little to commend it, and i had no hesitation in voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this annual tax report which attempts to widen the eu’s competency into national tax policies. this is an appalling case of ignoring the principle of subsidiarity. member states control the ability to legislate for a financial transaction tax. i am firmly against such a measure that would damage the competitive nature of the eu’s, and in particular the uk’s, markets.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for this report which proposes a holistic approach as regards taxation policy across member states, aimed at making the tax system fairer, and at cracking down on tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. the european parliament’s annual tax report put forward concrete proposals to tackle immoral tax practices – including measures to make companies report where they make their profits and where they pay their taxes, and an agreed europe-wide definition of tax havens that would see them named and shamed. however, i did vote against the recommendation that revenue from ftt should go to eu own resources, as labour meps do not support the revenue being used in this way. i also abstained on paragraph 25, which called on the commission to carefully study the options for the introduction of a minimum rate of corporation tax as a means of curbing damaging tax competition: whilst not against this in principle i have concerns that it would mean a significant shift in powers and stop the uk treasury’s ability to set potentially lower corporate tax rates. i would need more detail before agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it makes society fairer by introducing a fairer tax rates for small businesses, and by putting forward sound, comprehensive proposals to crack down on tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the annual tax report while conservative and ukip meps voted against. this report calls for action to tackle tax avoidance, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. the report also called on the commission to make the tackling of tax evasion a top priority as well as presenting effective proposals against tax havens this year.
in writing. ‒ with my european parliament labour party colleagues, i voted in favour of the annual tax report because the report proposes a holistic approach as regards taxation policy, which can prove to be a pragmatic tool to foster growth and deepen the european and monetary union. i am therefore surprised that ukip and british conservatives voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ with my european parliament labour party colleagues, i voted in favour of the annual tax report because the report proposes a holistic approach as regards taxation policy, which can prove to be a pragmatic tool to foster growth and deepen the european and monetary union. i am therefore surprised that ukip and british conservatives voted against the report.
mr president, in your announcements you made no mention of any member leaving a political group. i ask this because, in the uk, the united kingdom independence party has made a big song and dance about ms janice atkinson having been expelled from their party, yet here in the european parliament they seem to be keeping her as a member of their group, quietly, discreetly, keeping her – presumably in order to take advantage of the facilities and finance that such membership provides to them. is this not a case of hypocrisy, or is it just an error in transmission to you? (applause)
mr president, i would just simply say that this is a matter of legal proceedings. there are human rights in this matter of the kind that many members of this parliament are very keen on, not least mr corbett himself. the lady in question has hired a lawyer and, although she has actually been removed from the uk independence party, there is still a process laid down by statute, internally and externally. that process will continue in an appropriate manner. so perhaps mr corbett will find that point reassuring.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i hear it being said in this chamber that no one is against this. well i suppose i was elected to give an alternative view and i can certainly say that we are against this because we believe that britain can spend its money more efficiently in support of our regions than by sending the money to brussels to be spent for us. the opinion of the committee on regional development is in full support of a cohesion fund that is approximately 33% of the overall budget. this has not achieved its key objectives. it has drained financial resources from member states and is not helping member states to recover from the economic crisis. we hear that eur 20 billion of commitment appropriations could fall by the wayside. well what does ‘fall by the wayside’ mean? it means money going back to the european people, back to the countries, back to the taxpayers. so not everyone believes that the answer to every single question has to be ‘more europe’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– to me it is very simple. if, as a country, we in the uk – or others in whichever member state – send money across to brussels and then brussels sends it back, we could achieve the same result or better by financing those projects directly in the member states from a national government that actually understands what is going on on the ground in those countries. so to me it is quite simple.
mr president, along with colleagues, i sincerely hope that this vote will go through later on today. these operational programmes have real people on the end of them, and i know this all too well because in my region i have a county called cornwall, which is due to receive about gbp 500 million as a result of cohesion funding. but, because of the uk government’s failure to adequately get operational programmes agreed, there is a real risk of delays in that and we are already seeing redundancy notices and people losing their jobs as a consequence of this failure, so it is not cold statistics, it is real lives that we are talking about here. but there is also a question i would like to ask, because particular programmes such as the youth employment initiative have deadlines on them, and the delay in agreeing operational programmes can mean that there is a very short window within which to spend those funds. i hope that it will be possible not just to have flexibility on the commitments but also on the time available to spend the money that should be wisely spent on those programmes.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their report. in the report they highlighted that at the end of last year only a small percentage of operational programmes were adopted. i am pleased to say that in wales we managed to adopt our operational programmes in november of last year and already we are funding projects. unfortunately in england that is not the case. because the uk government changed the management structures, the operational programmes there have still not been agreed and of course this has consequences – consequences for those who want to apply for new projects, but also for those who have existing projects they want to continue. that is having real consequences for those who work in those projects and for the beneficiaries of those individual projects as well. that is why it is so important that this parliament, later on this afternoon, accepts these changes to transfer the money in order that we can start to fund the projects right across europe. i would indeed urge the commission to put pressure on the member states and also urge the member states themselves to take action to make sure the operational programmes are now agreed as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, nine days’ time will mark the official centenary of the beginning of the armenian genocide by ottoman turkey. today we must commemorate that tragic event and think of the one and a half million innocent murdered victims. but today should also be about looking to the future. since closing its border with armenia in 1993, turkey has pursued a relentlessly hostile policy towards armenia. this centenary offers an opportunity for turkey to reach out, to recognise the genocide and to seek dialogue with regard to reopening the international border as a gesture of goodwill. turkey claims justification for the closure of the border by citing its solidarity with its turkic brothers in azerbaijan, but we have seen this for the smokescreen that it really is by witnessing turkey’s inaction over the persecution of turkic tatars in crimea. armenia and its diaspora do not seek restitution or compensation, they only seek recognition. erdogan’s minister for europe has claimed that accession to the eu remains turkey’s number one priority. let that claim be honoured today by joining the 11 eu member states and national parliaments that recognise the armenian genocide and offering closure on this dark episode of turkish history.
mr president, the very house in which we sit is built upon foundations that were built out of absolute carnage. it would be quite wrong – and our two sister institutions are present here today – for anybody to expect this house to do anything other than to stand by our core principles. if we do not support the resolution that has been put before us in the vote that we take, then i am afraid the world will know that this house does not stand by the principles it preaches to others. i visited yerevan very recently. whilst i was there, taking part in the euronest discussions and our parliamentary cooperation committee, we finalised texts and i have co-signed the resolution that is going to be put before this house. whilst president erdogan may take the view that he is going to ignore what this house has to say, for how long is he going to ignore all of those turkish people that are saying exactly what we have said in our resolution? i say to the turks and i say to the armenians: ‘our intent is constructive. we want to help you both to move forward towards normalisation of relations.’ but to do that we must first stand by our own core principles. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– sir, does your support for core principles extend to dissociating yourself from the conservative party’s enthusiastic sycophantic position as being a cheerleader for turkey to join the european union, and if not, why not?
blue-card answer.– mr president, i think we have just had a very clear demonstration of the type of politics that mr erdogan himself is playing. i am afraid that the setting up of national agendas in order to ensure that the greater picture is ignored is not the constructive intent to which i refer. this house and the foundations upon which we are built demand of us that we stand by those core principles to which i referred. of course our two sister institutions may not be able to come and stand exactly with us but, as long as we know that they support the position we are taking, based upon our individual circumstances, then we know as a union that we are in a strong position. i stand by every word of what i have said.
mr president, our commemoration this year of 100 years since the first world war brings us to remember the tragic events involving turkey and armenia. it is quite right that we honour all who died and seek to learn the lessons of history in order to help us all live a better future. but there are turkish friends who believe the motivation behind these and similar expressions of sentiment are about using history in order to prevent a better future. to these turkish friends i say as follows. in the past my country, great britain, has been responsible for events which caused suffering and which cause us pain. the british set up concentration camps in the boer war which were used to kill one in 10 of the boer population. in malaysia, the british deported half a million ethnic chinese. irish colleagues in this chamber know how british rulers refused to feed the starving during that country’s famine. in an attempt to resist calls for independence in kenya, britain interned up to a million innocent civilians and forced them to work as slave labour. i am a proud briton, but i do not seek to deny these events from my country’s past. i do not feel the need to equate these events with past sufferings of my fellow countrymen and women. indeed, i am proud that leading figures of my own party took part in movements for liberation, towards reconciliation, to establish modern and equal relationships within our commonwealth. so british labour meps will support this resolution. we will welcome the recognition and condolences which have indeed been offered by turkey itself. we will encourage reconciliation. we will reject any attempt to link this issue to turkey’s eu accession but, whether the word used is ‘massacre’ or ‘atrocity’, ‘tragedy’ or indeed ‘genocide’, people died. and – whether it was more than or fewer than one million people who died, irrespective of the number of turks who died in the subsequent war, whatever the academic argument about whether a genocide was committed before the genocide convention was itself passed, and despite the rulings of the armenian constitutional court and of the turkish parliament which have blocked attempts at mutual understanding – sensitive to the emotions which are still felt today by relatives and descendants, we support today’s debate and resolution to honour the memory of all who died. (applause)
mr president, colleagues have eloquently stated that, 100 years ago, ottoman turkey carried out what has been described as a systematic genocide. that was a century ago, but in today’s turkey the government still refuses to apologise adequately and properly to the armenian people. in today’s turkey there are 21 journalists in jail and up to 150 awaiting trial. in today’s turkey the opposition is liable to arrest. in today’s turkey the government is attempting to control access to the internet. despite this blatant rejection of democratic values, turkey is nevertheless an eu candidate country that has even been allocated more than eur 4 billion in eu pre-accession assistance. the commission should think again. moreover those parties, especially the british labour party and the british conservatives, who are cheerleaders for turkey’s candidacy, should start to be honest instead of blathering the platitudes that we heard from two of their representatives earlier.
madam president, the commissioner spoke with obvious personal sincerity, but i have to say that her institution is simply not serious and not credible about discrimination. she tells us that the staff regulations do not permit action to make sure that disabled people have access to these very well paid jobs. so you change the staff regulations if you are serious about it. i have tabled parliamentary questions about this – nobody answers, in the same way that i have tabled dozens of parliamentary questions about how many people from ethnic minorities work in the eu institutions. no answers, nobody counts, nobody cares. it is not good enough to be personally sincere. disabled people have a right to the well-paid jobs in your institutions and you are not giving them those jobs. it does not matter why. you are not. you could, but you are not.
in writing.– i do not believe in quotas, for one simple reason: ‘positive discrimination’ is still discrimination, and i object to discrimination in all its forms. we should have working conditions which provide every opportunity for people with disabilities, but the allocation of jobs must be based upon merit not upon gender, ethnicity, disabilities, or any other form of discrimination. quotas are the antithesis of meritocracy.
in writing.– the eu is a major provider of employment in europe and a dark shadow would be cast over its accomplishments on upholding high social and labour standards if it would fail to apply these to its own employment policies. however, the eu’s work on ensuring equal employment for disabled people and their families shouldn’t stop at its own institutions. today, fifteen million children in the eu, 700 000 of whom are living in the uk, have special educational needs. while these children risk being denied equal access to after-school care because the majority of existing facilities are unable to accommodate their requirements, their parents incur higher than average childcare costs and risk being denied equal access to employment opportunities, as they are required to take more time off work to care for their child. the fundamental issue is simple – should the eu provide a level playing field for all in the employment market? the answer is a firm ‘yes’, and the eu needs to step up its game to make sure this is adequately reflected in its policies.
mr president, the eu authorities should not hand over passenger name records to mexico. last november, the eu referred the proposed eu—canada pnr agreement to the court of justice for a preliminary ruling on its compliance with eu charters, agreements and treaties and we are still awaiting that ruling. it makes no sense to adopt similar data retention measures while a real possibility remains that the court of justice may rule against the eu-canada pnr agreement. furthermore, an invasive blanket retention measure such as an eu-mexico pnr would collect all data from travellers flying between the eu and mexico, the vast majority of whom have no links whatsoever to any formal criminal suspicion. targeted law enforcement focusing on suspects already known to the relevant authorities respects the rule of law and is, after all, more effective.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of france, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mory-ducros report on the european globalisation adjustment fund. i welcome that the egaf funding is to contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, providing assistance for the reintegration of 2513 redundant workers into employment. the application relates to redundancies in mory-ducros sas, which are spread over 84 sites in the whole mainland of france, and are linked to a decline in physical output in europe.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) provides one-off support, under specific conditions, to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. as a trade unionist and a member of the trade union intergroup, i therefore voted in favour of this report which was an application to provide approximately eur 6 million of eu aid to help around 2 500 workers who lost their jobs from france’s former road haulage company mory-ducros in 2014. this fund will support those workers made redundant in finding new jobs. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ by way of an explanation for my vote, i considered this to be an appropriate cause for mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ today i voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of france. a total amount of eur 6 052 200 from the egf will be used to support the reintegration in the labour market of 2 513 workers made redundant in mory-ducros. the redundancies concern 84 sites in mainland france. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the specific vote concerned the extension of the mandate of the chair of the committee from 2 to 4 years. in the proposal for the change of the mandate, the extension is linked to the cycle of the european semester, including also country-specific recommendations. the european semester is a fundamentally undemocratic pact. its focus is supposedly to avoid economic boom and bust cycles, and is aimed at restoring economic growth to the eu. however, there is no mention of equitable growth and poverty reduction. it shows a clear disconnect between european bureaucrats and the reality that is facing millions of struggling working families in ireland and right across the eu. the european semester reform’s primary aim seems to be just to ensure that member states do not deviate from the economic neo-liberal ideology that it is pushing. it does not leave member states with flexibility to implement alternative policies, which would be pro-investment, pro-growth, pro-jobs. in effect it is working to deny both irish and other eu citizens real political choices when electing their governments and is further eroding sovereignty and reducing economic independence.
in writing. ‒ i believe that welfare provisions should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states. by voting against i do not comment upon the measures themselves, but on the place where these decisions should be taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to establish the social protection committee given the clear need for better coordination of social protection strategies in the current economic context.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to establish the social protection committee. social protection of eu citizens must be our major priority and this committee will help with the coordination of measures between member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and believe that the social protection committee can help to enhance the work of employment and social affairs ministers in the european union. i believe that scotland would benefit from full representation at the employment and social affairs council, with a top seat at the european table as would be the case when full powers are returned to the people of scotland.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision to establish a social protection committee to promote cooperation on social protection policies between member states and with the commission.
in writing. ‒ as an explanation of my vote, i felt that this was a well-balanced report on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted along with the majority of meps in favour of the decision to establish the social protection committee. the council decision aims to establish a social protection committee, with advisory status, to promote cooperation on social protection policies between member states and with the commission. the committee’s membership shall consist of two representatives appointed by each member state and two representatives of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that member states should have to coordinate their employment and labour market policies, nor that taxpayersʼ money should be spent on this.
in writing. ‒ i supported the council decision to establish the employment committee given that there is an imperative need for the eu to develop a coordinated strategy for employment, particularly for promoting a skilled and trained workforce and making sure our labour market can adapt swiftly to economic change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision to establish the employment committee. i believe this is necessary to ensure europe has a labour market which is responsive to economic change. this will help member states to develop a coordinated strategy for employment right across the eu and will be particularly useful in developing a skilled and trained workforce.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. the employment committee plays a key role in advising employment and social affairs ministers in the employment and social affairs council, by monitoring progressive aims such as the youth guarantee. the scottish government is supportive of the youth guarantee and it has proven to be effective in producing a decline in the rate of young people not in education, employment or training in scotland.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision to establish an advisory employment committee to promote coordination between member states on employment and labour market policies.
in writing. ‒ by way of an explanation of my vote, i felt that this was a well-balanced report on this issue.
in writing. ‒ s&d members of the european parliament voted in support of the council decision aiming to establish an advisory employment committee to promote coordination between member states on employment and labour market policies. the tasks of the committee shall be to monitor the employment situation and employment policies in the member states and the union. the committee shall consult the social partners and work, as appropriate, in cooperation with other relevant bodies and committees dealing with social and economic policy matters.
in writing. ‒ as per my speech in the chamber on this subject, it is entirely consistent for me to vote against. money not spent should be returned to the taxpayer, not appropriated to the european union in future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the olbrycht / thomas report, because it is only common sense that allocations not used in 2014 are carried over to the next year if there is a delay in adopting programmes. what is not common sense is that people in the uk are disadvantaged over other eu citizens due to the failure of the uk government to agree on the mechanics by which funds allocated to our regions will be invested. my region of the west midlands was supposed to receive european funding worth gbp 719 million last year, but this did not happen because the government declined to devolve powers to local enterprise partnerships. when it comes to quality jobs and inclusive growth, every day and every pound counts. but not for the uk government. another sad example of the tories keeping power locked behind westminster’s doors and failing to conduct an eu policy that benefits our citizens.
in writing. ‒ as an explanation of my vote, i felt that this was a balanced report on this issue.
in writing. ‒ labour meps today voted in support of the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020. this is an indispensable step to complete the starting process of the new cohesion policy programming period avoiding any negative impact for regions and cities and consequently for european citizens. the european structural and investment funds are the union’s most important investment policy. it is vital that all resources are used in as timely a manner and as effectively as possible, to generate growth and jobs. the new programming period has already experienced significant delays, and it must be ensured that there are neither further delays, nor any losses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide. the killing of approximately one-and-a-half million people from the armenian community one hundred years ago, in what was then the ottoman empire, was a genocide. indeed an increasing number of member states and national parliaments recognise the armenian genocide. dealing with the past and truth recovery are vital to any meaningful reconciliation process, a fact we in sinn féin are keenly aware of given our own post-conflict situation in ireland. the joint motion for resolution expresses recognition of the armenian genocide in the context of on-going and further reconciliation between armenia and turkey. this is to be welcomed.
in writing. – this matter does not appear to be subject to a roll-call vote. in the interests of transparency and democracy therefore, i wish to clarify that i voted in favour of all the efdd amendments and in favour of the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution adopted on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide to pay tribute to the one-and-a-half million innocent armenian victims who perished in the ottoman empire. i welcome the statements of turkish president erdoğan and prime minister davutoğlu offering their condolences and recognising atrocities against the ottoman armenians. this is a step in the right direction, and i now encourage turkey to use this commemoration as an opportunity to come to terms with its past and recognise the armenian genocide, which is crucial for achieving genuine reconciliation between the people of turkey and armenia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide. indeed, i believe it is crucial that the european parliament recognises the armenian genocide when an increasing number of member states and national parliaments are also doing so. timely prevention and effective punishment of genocides should be among the main priorities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution that pays tribute to the memory of the one-and-a-half million innocent armenian victims who perished in the ottoman empire. the tragedy against the armenians represents genocide as defined by the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide of 1948. the resolution encourages the turkish authorities to use the commemoration as an opportunity for turkey to continue its efforts to come to terms with its past, to recognise the armenian genocide and thus pave the way for a genuine reconciliation between the people of turkey and armenia. it is of utmost importance that we keep the memories of the past alive in order to help prevent new conflicts and build a brighter future, but it is as important to emphasise the need to prevent using this event to serve different political agendas. all parties must continue to work towards reconciliation.
in writing. ‒ by way of an explanation of my vote, i thought it right to pay tribute to the memory of the innocent armenian victims who perished during the first world war, in the spirit of european solidarity and justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the joint motion for a resolution on armenian genocide. meps paid tribute, on the eve of the centenary, to the memory of the one-and-a-half million innocent armenian victims who perished in the ottoman empire. armenia and turkey should use examples of successful reconciliation between european nations and focus on an agenda that puts cooperation between peoples first.
in writing. – following debate within our political group, the ecr has not placed a whip on this resolution but left individual members to exercise a free vote. i voted against the resolution, not because i do not have great sympathy for the thousands that died through neglect and illness or were massacred during the upheavals in turkey, in a state of war in 1915. the atrocities are fully acknowledged by the turkish authorities who have consistently offered to open their archives for scrutiny by a joint commission of turkish and armenian scholars in order finally to resolve controversy. my objection is to the use of the highly contentious term "genocide" and a politically-motivated initiative, primarily designed to offend and provoke turkey. at this time, we need turkey to remain a good ally in nato and in the fight against terrorism and jihadism. and we need to send messages of reconciliation. it is not helpful to incite further malice and to try and push turkey away.
in writing. – although i very much support the principle of opposition to discrimination, i am advised that some of the language in this report is overly strong and should not be supported. i therefore voted in favour of the two amendments, and abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ president, i supported the resolution adopted on the occasion of international roma day because i find it deeply disturbing that, 70 years after they suffered unspeakable atrocities under the holocaust, the roma people are still suffering from human rights violations as well as social and economic exclusion. extreme right and nationalistic parties are rearing their heads in the eu, and it is a disgrace that politicians from a right-wing uk party have made suggestions to the effect that contact with members from the local roma slovak community is detrimental to the wellbeing of other british citizens. it is a dangerous path to tread. it means we have not learned the lessons from the holocaust and are excluding the youngest and fastest-growing demographic group of our population from our common agenda for developing a prosperous and secure europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the occasion of international roma day – anti gypsyism in europe and eu recognition of the memorial day of the roma genocide during world war ii. i am deeply concerned by the rise of anti-gypsyism manifested through violent attacks against roma in europe. anti-gypsyism constitutes a major obstacle to the successful social integration of roma and to ensuring full respect for their human rights. i believe the european parliament plays a key role in calling on the commission to develop a european roma strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion. the roma originate from northern india but there are estimated to be around 10 million living in europe, making them the continent’s largest ethnic minority group. in their history the roma have faced persecution, most notably the genocide during world war ii. i support the text in this resolution that addresses the discrimination and marginalisation that the roma people have suffered historically in many european countries, and notes that that many roma live today in overwhelmingly poor conditions and face extreme levels of social exclusion and discrimination. celebrations to mark international roma day were held in glasgow this year involving the city’s roma residents and the wider community. it pleases me that the scottish government is advancing the idea of one scotland – a nation that empowers its communities and meets the hopes and aspirations of all its people, and that continues on a path towards a vibrant, diverse multi-cultural society based on mutual trust, understanding and respect.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the resolution. it breaks the silence around the roma victims of the nazi regime and it gives roma the place in our common history that they have been denied for so long. the recognition of the roma holocaust and the establishment of a memorial day for its victims are crucial for the fight against anti-gypsyism in europe. roma people are still victims of racist and violent attacks. only a continued and open dialogue between roma and non-roma stakeholders and the european institutions will help overcome our prejudices, constant discrimination and segregation. the commission should monitor the respect of eu citizens’ fundamental values and respond to any systemic breaches which may occur.
in writing. ‒ as an explanation of my vote, i believe it important to recognise and remember the millions of innocent people who were exterminated by the nazis, 500 000 of whom were roma people.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on anti-gypsyism in europe and eu recognition of the memorial day of the roma genocide during ww ii. it must be noted that roma, with an estimated population of 10 to 12 million in europe, are europe’s largest ethnic minority. anti-gypsyism, racism that is directed towards roma, is an ideology founded on racial superiority and is one of the main causes of the discrimination and marginalisation that the roma people have suffered historically in many european countries. the resolution underlines the need to combat anti-gypsyism at every level and by every means, and stresses that this phenomenon is an especially persistent, violent, recurrent and commonplace form of racism. it calls on the member states to further strengthen the fight against anti-gypsyism as part of their national roma integration strategies.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues at the european parliament, i voted in favour of an eu recognition of the memorial day of the roma genocide during wwii, because commemorating crimes against humanity and gross violations of human rights is crucial in order to pursue the causes of peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe. also, the genocide of the roma in europe deserves full recognition commensurate with the gravity of the crimes of the nazi and other regimes that were designed to physically eliminate the roma of europe, as well as jews and other targeted groups.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues at the european parliament, i voted in favour of an eu recognition of the memorial day of the roma genocide during wwii, because commemorating crimes against humanity and gross violations of human rights is crucial in order to pursue the causes of peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe. also, the genocide of the roma in europe deserves full recognition commensurate with the gravity of the crimes of the nazi and other regimes that were designed to physically eliminate the roma of europe, as well as jews and other targeted groups.
mr president, regarding rule 32 and the composition of political groups, you made no announcement of any change in the composition of political groups. at the last part-session, i asked you whether ms janice atkinson had been expelled from the efdd group, because in the united kingdom ukip is saying they have expelled her from their party. the chair of the efdd group at the last part-session said: ‘ah, she has been suspended’. but rule 32 makes no provision for suspending a member; you either are a member of a political group, or you are not a member of a political group. it would appear that while ukip in the uk is saying they have dealt with this member who is accused of fraud, here they are secretly keeping her in their group in order to obtain the benefits of having a slightly larger group. is it possible for you to do something about this hypocrisy?
mr president, yes, i would like to comment. mrs atkinson’s so—called expulsion is subject to an appeal. that appeal has not yet been heard, and until it has been heard and resolved one way or the other, she is still in good standing with the group.
mr president, prevention of road traffic accidents is vitally important and requires our continued support. however, we should direct our efforts at those strategies or mechanisms which are most effective and guaranteed to contribute to safety. as such, i cannot support a mandatory ecall system for four reasons. firstly, the system works on a mobile phone signal which is patchy or non-existent in many rural areas, particularly in the uk. it is therefore not proven that the system will work in areas of limited reception. secondly, it will require significant infrastructure investment to make it work. thirdly, independent research suggests that ecall will reduce serious injuries by only 0.5%. we will therefore have to divert measures from better and more effective road safety measures. fourthly and lastly, the most important concern from my point of view is that of privacy and civil liberties. ecall will mean that all car journeys in the eu and their speed can be tracked. that is unacceptable to me. conservatives fought hard to introduce safeguards into this agreement. however, i remain convinced that, unless optional, the system seriously undermines privacy and civil liberties. as a result, i and my delegation can only support a voluntary ecall system and not a mandatory one.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, olga sehnalová, for the excellent job she has done on this file, seeing it through from the last parliamentary term to today. despite the fact that it has not always been easy, olga’s hard work has produced an excellent end result, a piece of legislation which will help save thousands of human lives each year across scotland, the uk and the european union. road safety concerns us all. knowing that, if you are in a serious accident, emergency services will be automatically contacted and on their way to help can give all drivers and passengers across the european union peace of mind and reassurance for families when travelling abroad. the european union is investing heavily in ict innovation and r&d policies to advance the quality of life of our citizens, and we see this with the internet of things. this technology creates an ecosystem of smart applications and services which interact with each other. you need only to look at smart cities and smart mobility. e-safety and ecall are some of the latest examples of smart mobility tools and, as we see technology develop, cars are amongst the first everyday objects in which we see the practical application of this directly. we welcome the impact on improving and saving citizens’ lives across the european union.
mr president, nearly 26 000 people die in road accidents in europe every year and, if you have ever been upside down in your car with your family – like i was last summer – then of course you want the emergency services to get to you as quickly as possible. there have been concerns in this file about data privacy and some of these have been addressed during the trialogue negotiations, but there are still real concerns about the intrusiveness of having a microphone link directly into your car which you cannot switch off. maybe we should have had a more voluntary measure. it is also very prescriptive in the nature of its technology, and i am concerned that we have not left it open for smart new innovations, because it will be expensive. it is estimated to be about eur 100 per car and, more importantly, there is the cost of the infrastructure behind it. unfortunately, this money then comes from other lifesaving measures where the experts tell me it could have been better spent on improving the road system or more research so that the car did not go upside down in the first place. therefore, although the rapporteur has done a great job in trying to improve the legislation, i still think we could have made it smarter, better and more voluntary and got more money into stopping any accidents.
mr president, i see that there has not been a single speaker from the efdd group in this debate, speaking on behalf of their group. is this because they think this is a bad idea, this legislation? or is it simply because they are embarrassed that there is a piece of european-level legislation that has such widespread support and is clearly a good thing?
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, as the commissioner has said, europe is still the heaviest—drinking region in the world, and in europe alcohol remains the third biggest cause of preventable death and disease. the social costs of alcohol-related harm are estimated to be over eur 155 billion every year. i think members will agree that this is quite alarming and shows the need for urgent action to reduce alcohol consumption and the harm it causes. yet the eu’s previous alcohol strategy ended in 2012 and still we are waiting for a new one. we are also waiting for the commission’s report on extending food labelling rules to cover alcohol. this was due by the end of last year. so it does not feel as though the commission is taking this problem really seriously. my question is, why can we not have calories labelled on all alcoholic drinks? why should alcohol be treated any differently to everything else? it does seem strange to me that we know how many calories are in a can of coke or a glass of orange juice and yet we are not told the calories in a large glass of wine, which are actually the same as in a slice of cake. now you may prefer a glass of wine to a slice of cake – sometimes i do – but you need the information to make that choice. one really important issue is to have clear warnings on the dangers of drinking whilst pregnant, because there is overwhelming evidence of the dangers of alcohol to the unborn child. let me be clear, this is not about attacking our culture or trying to stop europeans from enjoying a glass of wine or beer with their meal, but ultimately this is a really important public health issue – one which requires coordinated and targeted action from member states and the commission. so i hope we will adopt a strong resolution this week. the commission needs to listen to this parliament and take action immediately to reduce alcohol—related harm. by finally coming forward with a new alcohol strategy, it would at least show commitment to taking this matter seriously.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i very warmly welcome commissioner hogan’s comments on nutrition labelling and join with others in the house in saying: do please hurry up, we have been waiting long enough for that. people have the right to make choices based on information which presently the drinks industry is not giving them. but i will focus specifically on recital b and paragraph 39 of the motion itself, which is a fine motion and i hope colleagues will support it. recital b specifically says that the competent authorities in the member states are best prepared to tackle alcohol abuse. in scotland that is the scottish government and the scottish parliament. in paragraph 39 we make specific reference to our plans in scotland for minimum unit pricing of alcohol. it has been proven to work in canada. it is a proportionate, evidence-based policy to cut down on problem drinking – specifically problem drinking – presently before the court of justice in luxembourg after the scotch whisky association challenged it. so it is sub judice but i hope that we can agree here that the first step to tackling a problem is to admit that it exists. sadly in scotland we do have too many people who drink excessively. we are serious about tackling that, and minimum unit pricing is an important step within those plans and i do hope there is nothing in eu institutions which will stand in our way.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, 24 april 2015 marked the second anniversary of the collapse of the rana plaza factory in bangladesh which tragically claimed 1 129 lives. this tragedy highlights the challenges faced by a strategic south asian country with a developing economy in providing safe, gainful employment for its very large population of 170 million people. the garment industry employs some 4 million people, many of whom are women, and accounts for its largest export sector. we can be thankful now that labour and safety issues have been improved as a result of the eu-bangladesh sustainability compact – for instance 32 factories have been permanently closed in bangladesh as a result of significant safety concerns. bangladesh must now ensure that the regulations required for the implementation of the 2013 labour act are adopted as a matter of urgency. the export processing zones law should also be amended to ensure that workers in the zones enjoy equal protection. bangladesh recently, to its credit, increased its minimum wage, but the international compensation fund for rana plaza victims is still usd 6 million short and i hope that this money can be found soon. certainly, in my view, compulsory csr is not a good idea.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, two years on from the rana plaza disaster, we should be congratulating all on the progress we have made to improve safety in the clothing industry, happy that victims have received compensation and safe in the knowledge that it will never happen again – but we are very far from this happy position. we are still stuck with the crazy model of over-consumption, throwing away clothes once they are ʽlast seasonʼ, and they are all costing the lives of the poor and voiceless people who are making them. so it is essential to mark this second anniversary. we must continue to fight for the change bangladeshi women so desperately need. but good progress is being made, public awareness about production methods is improving, and we now have the sustainability compact with the bangladeshi government, the eu and the ilo. but, this has not stopped other tragedies like the tazreen factory fire. there is lots more to do to stop these wholly preventable tragedies. better legislation can protect. we know that – we did it in europe in the last two centuries – so let us see that reform in bangladesh. we need due diligence for garment companies that outsource production to third countries, with binding measures on traceability and transparency. it is not impossible and it is our responsibility to make sure that those vulnerable people get our protection because the clothes they make, make us feel good. they keep commerce moving and make huge profits for multinationals. all from the sweat of their own labour. if the bangladesh national laws supposed to protect and compensate the workers are not enforced, if the multinational companies are slow in implementing decent working conditions, then it has to be up to us, the regulators and the consumers, to take that action.
madam president, for my group, there are three areas where we need action, all of which my colleagues have mentioned. firstly, we need to ensure that adequate compensation is paid. the fact that 30% is still undersubscribed is outrageous, and we need to name and shame the companies that have not come forward with their money. secondly, we have to continue to work to prevent future tragedies. the compact is a start in that direction, but frankly bangladesh has still not done enough in terms of training factory inspectors and more needs to be done in that respect. as other colleagues have said, we need to strengthen trade unions and there should be no exemptions in terms of export zones for trade union activity. thirdly, and probably above all, we need to change the culture in terms of the clothing industry if this is not to happen in the future. the era of cheap labour for cheap clothes has to come to an end. that means firstly that bangladesh itself has responsibility here because there is, let us be blunt about this, corruption between factory owners, government officials and safety inspectors at the present time, and that has to be tackled. but the multinational companies, again as my colleagues have said, also have the responsibility to ensure due diligence from the start of the supply chain to the end of the supply chain. they cannot say: ‘it is happening out of sight, therefore it is not our responsibility’. they have to ensure that good health and safety exists in the factories; they have to ensure that workers are paid a decent compensation and consumers have to accept, as others have said, that this might in the end cost them more money.
madam president, the day before the rana plaza collapsed workers did not have a collective voice to refuse to enter an unsafe workplace and were confronted by factory management with the choice of doing so or losing their jobs. this was not just a bangladeshi tragedy but an international one, with 29 international brands sourcing garments from the factories housed in the faulty building. it is disgraceful that those injured and the families of the victims still await rightful compensation, while brands continue to generate large profits. payments must be made. sadly, it took a man-made disaster to finally begin long overdue efforts to ensure better working conditions in the sector. a full reform of the bangladeshi labour act is therefore needed. we have a moral obligation to ensure a more comprehensive and effective multilateral approach to make basic labour standards and minimum working conditions a priority. the eu needs to use its influence for this change. we owe this to the more than 1 100 workers who lost their lives on 24 april 2013 and to future generations. i hope that the commissioner, just as my colleague said, will be pushing for the compensation, for future tragedies to be prevented and for trade unions to be strengthened.
madam president, the common fisheries policy is a bad policy. it is impractical and unsustainable and that is as true in the baltic as anywhere else. this new law shows us the future as the eu sees it: a regional management plan for a virtually closed body of water. so we must ask whether it will work. it remains collectivised; it is treated as a common resource; it retains the concept of a maximum sustainable yield, taking little or no account of subsidy or illegality or the simple fact that if you try to operate at the limit of its sustainability you have no margin of error. what is needed is restoration of national property rights, so countries can move to a maximum economic yield – a topic where the australians are pioneering some new sensible thinking. with fishing, as with immigration, the australians are showing us the way and there is probably much that we can learn from them. but, as so often, the eu is likely to be deaf to reason.
madam president, the multiannual plans under the new common fisheries policy (cfp) must meet the ambition of restoring stocks of fish by setting maximum sustainable yield (msy) levels plus a safety margin. msy can at best be an estimate based on scientific advice. if we get it wrong on one side it has disastrous consequences. if we get it wrong on the other side it still gives us the possibility to come back beneficially. that is why we must always ensure in these plans that we have maximum sustainable yield calculated at a level that is sustainable, even if we get it wrong. an extra safety margin keeping stocks above msy level is essential, in this and in all aspects of implementing the reform of the common fisheries policy.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, the common fisheries policy is a bad policy. it is impractical, unsustainable and unjustifiable. the last parliament sought so-called reform but, at best, they are making a catastrophe slightly less catastrophic. rearranging the deckchairs on the titanic is the maritime metaphor that seems to come to mind. yes, stopping discards is vital, but they are one of the worst aspects of a flawed system. frankly, a landing obligation which is partial and limited simply does not solve the problem. what is needed is to de-collectivise the policy in a manner which stops the vast french and spanish fleets hoovering the seas at taxpayers’ expense. now will mr cadec’s proposal achieve this? no, it will not. and does the uk’s lib-lab-con seek to do anything about this? no, they do not. on fishing, as in so much else, the british people need to know that they are being betrayed once again by the british political class and mr cadec’s tinkering at the edges does nothing to affect this fundamental truth.
madam president, the fishing industry faces a similar challenge to many other sectors throughout europe at the present and especially in the agri—food business. it is the challenge of doing more for less, and we need to create a more sustainable and prosperous fishing industry that protects our fish stocks. but europe can only do so much. as other speakers have said, the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in december has put an obligation on fishermen to land their catches, ending the practice of discarding. this is what was asked for, this is what was requested and this is what has now been done. yes, it may have taken a long time but then sometimes to get things right does take time. so i hope the long-term prospects for the industry will be quite good. i am extremely pleased that parliament has been able to secure the much-needed flexibility which was, in my opinion, required and i welcome the transition period because it does take time to adapt to the future, and i would like to give this a fair wind and hope it succeeds and brings better times for the fishing industry.
madam president, let us not forget that the discredited common fisheries policy (cfp) has in fact been one of the principal causes of discards through its inflexibility in the past. everyone wants an end to discarding, especially fishers themselves. they hate being forced to throw dead fish back into the sea by regulation. i believe that the landing obligation will only succeed if it is implemented in a thoroughly regionalised and fishery-specific process. this compromise is acceptable, but it is not perfect. it will be very difficult to implement, particularly in the mixed-species white fish sector which is crucially important in scotland and elsewhere. i therefore welcome the allowance to give time to adapt, but there must also be support for additional methods of reducing unwanted catches in the first place. there must be flexibility to allow quota uplift to prevent the industry being paralysed by so-called ‘choke species’. the overall objective surely must be to reduce fish mortality, not just to move the problem onshore.
madam president, i am pleased finally to be in a position to endorse this report, and i thank mr cadec for all his hard work; i know it has been difficult. i do regret the delay in coming forward, because it certainly would have been useful if we had had these regulations in place for the beginning of the ban at the beginning of this year. i do not think we have got off to the best of starts with the omnibus regulation on that basis, and i do hope that fishermen do not lose confidence in parliament and our stance on discards simply because of that. i am aware that this is only a ‘quick fix’ to remove inconsistencies in existing legislation until the commission comes forward with a full overhaul of the technical conservation measures, but i am glad that we have now got that quick fix in place. having worked on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in the last parliament, i can say that the discard ban was one of the few eu achievements that my citizens welcomed, celebrated and do actually come and talk to me about, so i think it is incumbent on us all to make sure that we go forward, do not lose any ambition on that cfp and get it right.
in writing.– it is four years since the now famous ‘fish fight’ campaign against the wasteful practice of discarding fish at sea kicked off in the uk, with the backing of nearly one million brits. their tireless campaigning helped ensure this reform was firmly on parliament’s agenda. labour meps’ firm support for this helped secure the hard-fought-for reform of the cfp to end the practice of discarding – which was hailed as a major success, even by greenpeace. this week we are voting on measures to bring existing laws in line with the reform, to ensure legal clarity in the implementation of the landing obligation. it is our duty to ensure that this process is done in the clearest and most coherent way, without delay.
mr president, we have just commemorated one very unhappy anniversary two years after the rana plaza disaster. poignantly, rana plaza occurred two days before another sobering commemoration, that for the international workers’ memorial day, which has been held on 28 april for many years. today some people seem to think that european workplaces are perfectly safe. for example, the commission rightly has a focus on ‘better’ regulation but many, including the british government, have wrongly interpreted this as meaning ‘laxer’ regulation. that is inexcusable, given the appalling toll of work-related mortality and morbidity. in my region, the south-east of england, ten people were killed at work last year, over 9 000 suffered an injury and an estimated 184 000 were made ill by the work they did. that is enough to fill two wembley stadiums. we could have no better demonstration of the need for health and safety legislation than these sobering statistics. national and european legislators should heed them more.
mr president, i stand to give my condolences to the friends and families of those affected by the tragic earthquake in nepal. countless people have lost their loved ones and i share their grief. knowing the country and the people well – as a former chair of this house’s south asia delegation i was indeed heavily involved in the dialogue on transition to democracy in nepal – i do think that it is apt that we are showing our solidarity with the one-minute silence. i also welcome the eur 3 million in emergency aid released by the commission for this tragedy, in addition to assistance offered by the eu member states and the deployment of experts. it is essential that these member states work and coordinate effectively, with the commission and also with the other donors, to ensure that we have learnt the lessons from the past; for example, in the aftermath of the haiti earthquake in 2010. these resources must be used in the most effective way. chief amongst them was the failure to coordinate and i do think it is important ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, praise for cooperation is often heard in this chamber and even more so in committee, but the extent to which this was achieved over the committee on culture’s work on the bologna process was of a different, if you will excuse the pun, degree. much of the credit for that goes to the rapporteur and the ecr will support this report in plenary. the report is not so consensual as to simply reel out platitudes. it is not just ʽmotherhood and apple pieʼ, to use the american expression, but it is of some real value. however there are storm clouds, in the shape of the possible admission of belarus into the bologna process, as is currently under discussion. there are already countries in the process whose political systems give less than full-throated support to the democratic freedoms and plurality needed for an effective university sector, and the admission of belarus would give even more cause for concern over the confidence we want to have in the process.
mr president, i would like to thank ms köstinger very much for her report. i believe that much sustainable forest management is currently being constrained by well—meaning but overly prescriptive and bureaucratic environmental legislation, and that includes things like the eu timber regulation. so i welcome the report’s emphasis on the upcoming review of that regulation and a call for a new regulation that reduces unnecessary costs and reporting requirements for europe’s foresters. i do understand the need to apply the regulation to third country imports, but a blanket approach in the eu is not necessary. targeted activity is what is needed, and to work with those problem countries to look at how to strengthen their internal governance procedures so that the vast majority of woodland owners across the eu are not burdened with unnecessary cost and pointless bureaucracy.
mr president, i would just like to take this opportunity to say something about the importance of forestry and the importance of trees, the importance of wood. there are three main reasons for this importance: first, tackling climate change; second, creating jobs; and third, improving health. on the first of these, tackling climate change, we already sequestrate – absorb – 10% of our carbon emissions at the eu level through our forest cover. if we could increase that forest cover, and i believe we can – in the republic of ireland they are going to go from 10% cover to 18% cover by 2050 – we will sequestrate more carbon and play a better role in tackling climate change. secondly, we can create a large number of new jobs in this area – in my own constituency of the north-east there is big job potential. and, thirdly, we can improve people’s health by getting them out exercising in forests. so tackling climate change, creating jobs and improving health all show why man’s best friend is not the dog: man’s best friend is the tree.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i would also like to extend my thanks to the rapporteur mr torvalds for his work in what has often been quite difficult circumstances. we got here in the end, we got a compromise, and i am very grateful to him for all his work. i think it is very important that we take a moment to consider why we are having this debate and why this issue has been such an area of contention, because we have for many years now seen the effects of particularly bad policy from the european union when it comes to biofuels. i have seen some of these effects for myself in my previous role working for an ngo in areas of the world, particularly in sub-saharan africa, where communities have been suffering from some pretty bad effects of the policies that we have been adopting here. in particular: the proliferation of crops for biofuel production for fuel consumption there on land that could and should be used for food production; the betrayal of some local communities whose livelihoods have depended on that land; and of course the unintended consequences of indirect land use change that have resulted from the replacement of ecosystems that would actually have contributed to solving the problem of climate change. the package that we have now is imperfect and i make no bones about the fact that we have serious reservations, certainly about the target for first-generation production which, as we know, we wanted to be much lower. i think this package certainly reflects the intransigence of member states, and that has been particularly apparent in the position adopted by the council when it came to the negotiation process – and also reflects a lack of ambition, if i may say so, from the commission. however, this is a step forward and we should acknowledge the significance of this, because the impasse that we have had for so long now has not been beneficial for the communities that i have mentioned. it has not been beneficial for the industries that have, with the very best of intentions, set us down this path on the investments that they made so many years ago. i think that in this package we are choosing, at last, to recognise the existence of indirect land use change and we are giving the commission the platform to enable itself to apply the science that the blockers have for so long denied. there are some in this chamber who would deny some of the bad impacts of biofuels that i have mentioned, and there are others that might choose to play politics and score points on this deal. i think this deal represents a step forward, imperfect as it is, and that is why i shall be supporting it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think there are many causes of earthquakes, but i think plate tectonics might be the principal cause. i am willing, though, to hear evidence on the contribution of biofuel policy in the european union to the devastating earthquakes in nepal. if such evidence is forthcoming i would like to hear it. i have an open mind, let us put it that way.
mr president, my party holds no particular brief for biofuels, but we are particularly concerned about the damaging regulatory uncertainty which this parliament has created. first, we mandated 10% biofuels and we allow industry to make major investments on that basis. one major european company has invested eur 0.5 billion in a palm oil refinery. now, we propose to cut the biofuel percentage to 5 or 6 or 7%. we are doing huge damage to investors. we are cutting them off at the knees. this is no way to run an economy. more generally, we see a world awash with cheap oil and gas and that is a situation which is likely to continue for some time. co2 emissions will increase for decades, regardless of what we in this house do. i have a word of advice for colleagues: it is time they got used to the idea.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for all his hard work on this file. for those of us who have followed it all the way through the last parliament and this, it has been a long road. i am glad we have actually reached – or at least i think we are reaching – the end of it. it is amazing how there does not seem to be anybody here who wants to take responsibility for the 2008 agreement and for the 10% cap, which seems to be such a terrible idea all of a sudden. however, i for one am glad that we have settled on 7% because the first thing that that comes to mind with this file is how we have created a huge amount of uncertainty amongst investors. it really should be a cautionary tale to this parliament that, if we are going to try to do things that are far-reaching, we must get it right and we must stick to it. it is entirely unfair to pull the plug a few years before the end, so i am delighted that we have, at least, settled on 7%. the second issue with this file for me was the indirect land—use change (iluc) factors. this morning many have deplored the fact that we are not going to be accounting, but are only going to be reporting. i am delighted about that too, because it is absolutely clear that the science on iluc factors is not good enough. the maths do not add up and the model does not work. i am happy to accept accounting when we get it right, but it is not right now. the last thing i would like to touch on is parliament’s negotiating. i take my hat off to mr torvalds: it is absolutely the case that the single most important thing that could have come out of this file was a mandatory target on advanced biofuels, but we did not get that. it was the one thing on which every political group across the spectrum agreed, but we did not get it. i think those who were involved in the negotiations should be ashamed of that fact.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. i welcomed the commission proposal when it was first launched, as i believe absolutely that we need to tackle the issue of plastic waste, particularly plastic bags, in the environment. the commission proposal, when it came, was relatively flexible and it set out a variety of options for member states to pursue, but as a result of amendments here, the final agreement lacks flexibility and contains a number of overly prescriptive and, in my view, potentially unworkable requirements. i cannot support the requirement for the adoption of a label for biodegradable and home-compostable bags without an impact assessment, given the possible additional administrative burden for the member states and economic operators. there are certain provisions which i believe would have been better addressed in the context of the follow-up to the commission green paper on plastic waste, such as the report on the use of oxo-biodegradable bags. i have concerns that the possibility to vary the measures taken towards plastic bags, based on their environmental impact or other properties, could be problematic as regards the principle of non-discrimination and proportionality, as well as the possible impact on the smooth functioning of the single market. should member states opt to achieve the reduction target in the ‘either/or’ scenario, they would need to meet the levels predetermined by the directive. i cannot support this approach, as these levels were set in the absence of statistical consumption data for all member states. lastly, mrs auken has said that we need to do something because countries are not doing it themselves. this is patently not the case because, whilst all of this was going on, my own member state was objecting to the lack of flexibility but, at the same time, putting forward its own measures for reducing plastic bags, which are in fact now statute. so it simply is not the case that if europe does not do it, member states will not: they do, and they do it at their own pace, and that is the best way to do legislation.
madam president, every year more than eight billion plastic bags end up as litter in europe. not only do these plastic bags blight our countryside, but they blight our rivers and seas. they are deadly for seabirds, fish, seals, dolphins and other marine animals. the only way we can tackle this shared issue is by taking action across europe. now we can dramatically curb disposable plastic bags right across the eu. the average use of around 200 plastic bags per person will reduce to about 40 by 2025. this is a huge step forward, leading to cleaner oceans and less suffering for marine wildlife. yet, time and again, conservative meps have refused to back these targets. in the uk, liberal democrats fought hard in government, against the conservatives, to ensure a 5p tax on plastic bags, coming in this year, and here in the european parliament conservative meps have shown their true colours by not supporting these much-needed eu limits. this shows how weak the conservative commitment to environmental protection is. cutting wasteful bag use must start now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– could i ask mrs bearder if she believes that the proposal before us now is better, and will be more effective in the uk, than the proposal put before, and voted for in, the uk parliament – and supported by the liberal democrats – for the reduction of plastic bags in the uk?
blue-card answer. – yes, the proposal here is a pan—european proposal which leaves it to the countries to deliver what they feel is best to reduce plastic bag use. in the uk it was the liberal democrats, in their manifesto, who delivered in government a 5p tax. it will be different in different countries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– the use of biodegradable plastic bags is a problem. i do not know that we have sorted it here, but what happens is that, if the biodegradable ones get into the recycled waste stream, they corrupt that waste cycle. so i think we may need to come back and look again at biodegradable plastic bags. i do not think they should be used as shopping bags, quite frankly.
madam president, at the launch of the commission’s 2015 work programme, jean-claude juncker said he wanted to see an eu that is bigger and more ambitious on big things and smaller and more modest on small things. i fear the directive we are debating today is an example of the eu being far too big and overly ambitious on the small things. as an item used nearly every day in households across europe, plastic bags could not be any smaller. the underlying principle of reducing environmental damage from discarded plastic bags is, of course, one we can all support. yet the measures to be introduced in the second reading agreement, while an improvement on the first, risk being overly prescriptive and potentially unworkable. mandatory reduction targets, without adequate data, do not take into account the huge disparities in the rates of consumption between member states. in my own constituency, we reduced the amount of plastic bags dispensed by retailers by 72% after the introduction of a 5p carrier bag levy: leave it to the member states.
madam president, much of the debate around this report has been characterised by an unjust, misinformed attack on oxo—biodegradable plastics technology, which has a considerable contribution to make in the battle against excessive plastic bag littering, which is something we would all like to stop. this innovative technology has been driven by a company in my east of england constituency with 30 dedicated employees. as one of the local meps, i applaud the work they have done and recognise the potential for thousands of jobs in the future. yet, while this technology has vast potential, the report’s rapporteur has given in to rival italian vested interests resting on hydro-biodegradable technology, which has simply sought to eliminate a competitor from the market. we should proceed on the basis of independently produced, solid, scientific evidence, not misinformed smears. thanks to the tireless work by my ecr colleagues, the commission and council saw sense. the finalised directive rightly refuses to ban oxo—biodegradable technology and calls on the commission to conduct a proper scientific study. we must await its outcome and not rush to judgement. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– madam president, this is a little unusual: this is a friendly question, because i also represent the same constituency as mr campbell bannerman and i do not think that i am going to be able to speak under ‘catch the eye’, so i am going to give him the opportunity to say a little bit more, if he wants to, for the firm symphony (i think it is) in hertfordshire, so on you go. isn’t that unusual for people to cooperate?
blue-card answer.– as i say, what i am arguing for is that we have a proper scientific study and let us see how it works. i am convinced – and knowing it from the constituency – that this is a very good technology that will help us address this pollution problem. i am afraid there is a lot of unscientific abuse being used against this company and the technology. let us look at the facts rather than relying on these prejudices.
in writing.– i support this report. action to reduce the usage of plastic bags in scotland by the snp government has already proven to be enormously successful, with figures at the end of 2014 showing a massive 90% reduction in plastic bag usage. under these new rules, which i trust will be approved by meps, member states would be able to choose between two policy options: to either take measures to ensure that average yearly consumption of these bags does not exceed 90 lightweight bags per citizen by 2019 and 40 by 2025, or alternatively, to ensure that, by 2018, they are not handed to shoppers free of charge. plastic bags are not biodegradable and are especially harmful to marine animals. that is why targeted action is essential to making a difference, as scotland’s experience proves. these measures will make many consumers get into the habit of reusing bags, which should reduce the amount of litter that blights our communities and natural environment, and costs a fortune to clean up. scotland has raised over gbp1 million for charities as a result of the single-use carrier bag charge; i would be delighted to see this model replicated amongst eu retailers.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. i think his approach to this file, given that he was not working on it from the beginning is, in line with that of his colleague, mr torvalds, an exemplar of openness and transparency, so i would like to thank them both. the ecr is very pleased to vote in favour of this regulation, which will establish an eu system for monitoring, reporting and verification of co2 emissions from maritime transport. our aim throughout has been to ensure that the eu regulation is practicable, that it is proportionate in terms of the burden it imposes on industry, and that it is compatible with the work of the imo on global measures. once this work in the imo is completed – and i share mr groote’s desire to know how that is going – we will be amending eu legislation to make sure that it is aligned. so i am pleased with our success on this file in ensuring that we do not repeat the mistake on aviation by going for a unilateral approach. it constitutes a welcome first step to reducing co2 from the maritime sector.
mr president, i declare a commercial interest in this matter and i am not voting.
in writing. ‒ this was a consent report which will provide member states with the requisite authority to sign the international convention, which sets minimum standards on training, competence and fitness for the personnel of large fishing vessels, aimed at improving safety. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the ribeiro report on the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel because i believe it is vital to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job so that potential threats to safety of life and property at sea or to the marine environment can be minimised when operations are being carried out on seagoing vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, authorising member states to become party to the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel of the international maritime organization. fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate. twenty-four thousand lives are lost each year during fishing operations and any safety improvement must therefore be welcome.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it authorises member states to become signatories to the international convention on fishing vessel personnel of the international maritime organization.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate; an estimated 24 000 lives a year are lost during fishing operations and anything that contributes to improved safety must be welcome.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the decision authorising member states to become party, in the interest of the european union, to the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel of the international maritime organization. the decision will enable member states to ratify the stcw-f convention without encroaching on the eu’s exclusive competence regarding the recognition of regulated professions pursed by eu nationals on board fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel. by ratifying the convention, member states are required to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and physically fit for the job. this will be important in promoting the safety of personnel, property and the marine environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 2/2015. i believe it is crucial that the unused appropriations for 2014 can be transferred to the upcoming years in order to contribute to the creation of jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it does provide a practical solution for implementation of delayed operational programmes and the overall size of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 remains unchanged.
in writing. ‒ today parliament voted to ensure that eu citizens and our regions do not miss out on key investment which has been delayed as a result of our governmentʼs incompetence. in 2010, the tory-liberal democrat coalition unilaterally abolished the english regional development agencies and created local enterprise partnerships, seemingly with total disregard for the impact of this decision on eu funding. leaving regions like mine – the north-east of england – unable to access the eu funds allocated: funds to address unemployment, grow businesses and provide training. today, we have made sure that the north-east will not lose a penny of the gbp 724 million allocated to us up to 2020, but now we need to get that investment unblocked and out to where it is needed.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the unused appropriations for the year 2014 were transferred, to the maximum extent possible, to the financial year 2015 as this will avoid unfair treatment of certain member states, regions and operational programmes, accelerate the implementation and delivery of cohesion policy and help avoid the concentration of payments at the end of the mff period.
in writing. ‒ i believe this proposal provides a practical solution for the implementation of delayed operational programmes; 2014 allocations for unapproved uk programmes total eur 1.25 billion.
in writing. ‒ i voted with the majority of meps in favour of draft amending budget no 2/2015. it is vital for european citizens and for the economies in all member states that the unused appropriations for the year 2014 can be transferred to subsequent years in order to contribute to the creation of jobs and growth. the 2014 allocations for unapproved uk programmes total eur 1.25 billion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the multiannual financial framework. the draft amending budget will allow funding delayed from 2014 to be allocated to the 2015 budget year, which will give support to programmes across the eu.
in writing. ‒ this amendment permits that the ecall system may be turned off and is therefore preferable from the position of the rights of member states than to have it mandatory for it to be turned on.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this measure as i do not believe that ecall should be compulsory. this measure will make cars more expensive for the consumer. it also ignores the views of motoring organisations which say that drivers should be left to deal with the circumstances on the road.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sehnalová report because the deployment of a public eu-wide emergency call system embedded in the cars of eu citizens represents a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens, having the potential to save more than 2 500 lives yearly across europe. i am proud that my group were the leading force in ensuring this service based on the 112 emergency number, available free of charge to everyone. crucial in gaining my support was the fact that vehicles equipped with 112 public ecall are not traceable and not subject to constant tracking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to support the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system. the deployment of a public eu-wide emergency call system embedded in the vehicle is an important achievement for the safety of citizens and can save lives across europe. from 31 march 2018, all new cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with an ecall emergency device that will automatically dial the 112 emergency number in the event of an accident, sending details of the accident to emergency services. this will also be free of charge for all citizens.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the report as it represents a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens. the quicker response by the emergency services to accidents on roads across europe could save about 2 500 lives in the eu every year. moreover, the vehicles equipped with the 112 public ecall system will not be traceable and not subject to constant tracking. in fact, the device will upgrade the data constantly and keep the minimum information required to handle the emergency calls.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning type-approval requirements for the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system based on the 112 service.
in writing. ‒ the deployment of a public eu-wide emergency call system embedded in the vehicle (and based on the 112 emergency number) represents a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens, having the potential to save more than 2 500 lives yearly across europe.
in writing. ‒ the socialists and democrats group voted in support of the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system. the deployment of a public eu-wide emergency call system embedded in the vehicle (and based on the 112 emergency number) represents a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens, having the potential to save more than 2 500 lives yearly across europe.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this report which calls for the mandatory equipping of new passenger cars and light vehicles with the ecall in-vehicle system. in the event of a serious accident, the system will automatically call the emergency services regardless of where the vehicle is in the eu. this is a very important and concrete achievement for the safety of citizens, and has the potential to save more than 2 500 lives yearly across europe.
in writing. ‒ this vote is for the implementation of the ecall in-vehicle system. from now on, car manufacturers will be required to install an on-board ‘e-call’ system in new cars, which will automatically dial the emergency services in the event of a serious accident. the system is designed to work with the europe-wide 112 emergency services number, ensuring that uk drivers are protected both at home and abroad. the proposal also takes privacy concerns seriously, by ensuring that the ecall system is dormant until activated in the event of an accident. vehicles equipped with ecall are not traceable and are not subject to any constant tracking. the set of data sent by the in-vehicle ecall system includes the minimum information required for the appropriate handling of emergency calls. i voted for this proposal because it will save lives by reducing the response time of emergency services, while also maintaining the privacy of drivers by not collecting any unnecessary data.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text which was the outcome of the recent negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament. the eu biofuels policy needs serious reform and whilst i welcome the increased certainty this long-awaited agreement will bring, the overall package was extremely weak and i was very disappointed with several aspects of the final text. environmentalists and biofuel producers alike have both expressed their discontent with the advanced biofuels target – not only is it too low to stimulate real growth in this sector but the council pushed for, and won, the right to not even make the target mandatory. furthermore, one of the most contentious aspects of this report, indirect land use change (iluc) factors, will be reported on but, unfortunately, not accounted for. this agreement must now be seen as a stepping stone and not the end of moving towards sustainable transport in europe.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the package negotiated with the council and the commission because it is better to enact meaningful change in the union's policy than make political statements that derail an outcome, which has been welcomed by both ngos and industry. while i hope to see more certainty about iluc factors and how we will deal with them as soon as possible, i shall be seeking them by maintaining political pressure on the commission and council through the framework established in this agreement. consequently i voted against the amendments tabled by the efdd group, not because i do not believe in their content, but because i feel it would be morally irresponsible to sink a deal which so many people are waiting for. a clear outcome from these negotiations is needed so that people in developing countries in particular can gain certainty over the use of their land and that industry receives a clear signal to be able to move forward to newer generations of biofuel technology. i believe this deal, with a higher cap on first generation biofuels than i would want, is better than no deal as it represents a genuine move away from harmful biofuels.
in writing. – i opposed these rule on biofuels because they will not curb the negative impact of indirect land use change (iluc) on climate change. the rules allow a 7% share of land-based biofuels, such as rapeseed biodiesel or wheat ethanol, in the overall fuel mix. using food crops to fuel cars will contribute to rising food prices and the further destruction of the rainforest. this cap is much too high. i have had a lot of contact from my constituents in wales on this important issue and i will continue to work for a better policy.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the torvalds report because it offers a step towards the development of an advanced policy on biofuels that benefits eu citizens. i specifically welcome the fact that my group was able to push through wording on respecting the waste hierarchy, and protections for indigenous peoples’ land rights. i also applaud that this legislation will help reduce co2 emissions from transport and curb the undesired effects induced by indirect land use change caused by biofuels. unfortunately, due to the reluctance of the council and the commission, there has been a missed opportunity to make headway on developing an advanced policy on biofuels that delivers real benefits for the climate while offering a strong regulation for safeguarding the stability of investment and jobs. however, thanks to the introduction of a review clause championed by my group, the door has been left open for further legislation. i urge the council and the commission to seriously reflect on the crucial importance of a directive on fuel quality and renewable energy that truly responds to the eu’s ambitious goals in the fields of climate, energy, jobs, development assistance and, last but not least, the achievement of sound policy coherence between all these fields.
in writing. ‒ the conservatives recognise the role that biofuels can play in reducing emissions and therefore help the eu and member states achieve important environmental objectives. biofuels play an important role in the uk energy mix as the eu looks towards achieving its climate goals whilst achieving greater energy security. an unscientific approach towards accessing the environmental impact of biofuels could have damaged business confidence in the sector. having seen the role that this industry plays in contributing towards the green economy and providing jobs in the uk, i am pleased to see some steps towards evidence-based policymaking, along with proposals that will offer the industry greater clarity and certainty. we believe provisions such as allowing member states to set lower caps on conventional biofuels will enable some member states to meet their goals. we regret that the target for advanced fuels remains non-binding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the package negotiated with the council and the commission because it is better to enact meaningful change in the european union’s policy than make political statements that derail an outcome, which has been welcomed by both ngos and industry. while i hope to see more certainty about indirect land use change (iluc) factors and how we will deal with them as soon as possible, i shall be seeking them by maintaining political pressure on the commission and the council through the framework established in this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislation as it will help reduce co2 emissions from transport and also curb the undesired effects induced by indirect land use change caused by biofuels, such as land use for speculation and higher food prices. this legislation will improve the current status, but is in no way satisfactory. we managed to introduce a review clause, and we intend to come back with our proposals for a more efficient and ethical use of biofuels. we have to move towards advanced biofuels with the proper regulation both for the environment and for the stability of investments and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as this is a stepping stone in the right direction, keeping the door open for further legislation in the future, and ensuring that it was not watered down or lost should we be forced to go to conciliation. the final offer includes a cap on conventional biofuels of 7% that can be counted towards the 10% target for renewable energy in transport and set a non-binding target of 0.5% for advanced biofuels. it also obliges fuel suppliers to report on the indirect land use change (iluc) emissions of their fuels, but these will not be taken into account when calculating fuels’ carbon footprint under the fuel quality directive.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the package on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive. if we do not step up to the plate, the overarching challenge europe faces is the continent being technologically overtaken regarding sustainable fuels. this is something we cannot afford – regardless of where we find ourselves on the political map. not being on par with the challenges would mean the end of a greener europe, as well as a more jobs-friendly europe and a more investment-friendly europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels. this will have a positive impact on the environment, for example by improving the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes and encouraging biofuels to increase their market penetration.
in writing. ‒ this amending directive applies to indirect land-use change (iluc) and amends the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive. the original directives aimed to enable a transition from fossil fuels to biofuels to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. however, these ʽfirst generationʼ biofuels use crops that would otherwise have been used for food or animal feed, and the indirect land-use change can produce enough emissions to negate the benefits of biofuels over fossil fuels. this proposal caps the contribution of first generation biofuels to greenhouse emissions targets and encourages the use of advanced biofuels that will be more beneficial to our environment. labour meps wanted a stronger cap, but we voted for this report as it is a step in the right direction and the door is open for further legislation in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. plastic bags are not biodegradable and can take between 400 and 1 000 years to break down in the environment. it is estimated that 1 million plastic bags are used every minute globally which makes it no surprise that plastic waste is causing some serious impacts on the worldʼs oceans. plastic never completely deteriorates – it breaks down into ever smaller pieces. with up to 12 000 000 tons of plastic entering the world’s oceans every year it is worrying but inevitable that the fish we eat will have ingested some of it. in ireland, both north and south, the plastic bag charges have a proven record. indeed, ireland was the first country in the world to introduce such a levy and currently charges eur 0.22 per bag. the number of bags used per inhabitant fell from 328 per year to just 21, already well below the target of 90 in this report.
in writing. – i voted to approve new rules on plastic waste. european governments will have to adopt measures to reduce the use of single-use carrier bags, either by introducing a charge, as we have done in wales, or by another method, to achieve set targets. this is a welcome step. every year nearly 100 million plastic bags are used in europe and the number is growing. eighty-nine per cent of them are used only once and then thrown away. half end up in landfill sites where they can be blown into the environment. the legislation adopted in wales was a major success. i am certain that this new eu legislation will have a similar impact.
in writing. ‒ over 8 billion plastic carrier bags are littered in the eu every year, causing significant harm to the environment, especially under the form of marine litter. initiatives adopted by some member states, however, prove this problem has an easy and efficient solution: changing societies' mind-set on the use of plastic bags by putting a charge on their use. that's why i gave my support to the bonafi report, which combines ample flexibility for member states with a call to make those who want to use plastic bags bear the price and the responsibility. because we simply can't accept for plastic particles in our oceans to outnumber plankton.
in writing. ‒ the conservatives favour proposals to reduce the consumption of plastic bags and their effect on the environment, particularly the blight of marine litter. however this proposal is not consistent with the principle of better regulation and many elements fall outside of the scope of the original commission proposal. the conservatives have set out to simplify eu regulation so that it becomes more practicable and straightforward for businesses to comply with. we wish to make reaching our dual goals of a green and business-friendly economy more achievable. we reject the mandatory nature of the final agreement and remain convinced that voluntary measures would be more effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. i believe that discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment and harm biodiversity as marine litter. the problem can be easily and efficiently addressed as already proved in some member states. putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, not to mention the harm being done by marine litter to biodiversity. putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. as result of the negotiations between parliament and the council, the commission proposal has been significantly improved by laying down an obligation on members states to achieve a sustained reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. importantly, for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, we will have binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation.
in writing. ‒ discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment and harm biodiversity as marine litter. the problem can be easily and efficiently addressed, as already proven in some member states. putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem overnight.
in writing. ‒ today we voted in support of the proposal on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. the s&d group believes that discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment and harm biodiversity as marine litter. the problem can be easily and efficiently addressed as already proved in some member states. putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
in writing. ‒ discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, therefore i voted against the efdd proposal to reject the council’s position on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. steps have already been taken in the uk to introduce charging for plastic bags and it is important that similar action be taken across the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the faria report, because the establishment of a european monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is a crucial - and long overdue - measure to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ climate change and pollution are not restricted to international borders so the conservatives recognise that an eu-wide approach is needed to successfully tackle carbon dioxide emissions, in this case from maritime transport. i am pleased to have secured an acceptable exemption clause for short-sea shipping whilst ensuring that the overall proposals do not extensively burden the maritime industry by creating provisions to extend monitoring, reporting and verification. we also removed provisions that would have integrated maritime emissions into eu ets before any global agreement at the international maritime organization. i am therefore happy to support this ambitious proposal that does not disadvantage short-sea shipping whilst reducing the regulatory burden on the maritime industry as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. at eu level, the international maritime sector accounts for around 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase significantly in the future. an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as an eu-wide system for the monitoring, reporting and verification system for co2 emissions from ships is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this overdue proposal to introduce a system for monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ this is a crucial step towards making sure we have effective co2 monitoring in the eu, and well overdue. an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. – international maritime shipping is the only form of transportation that is not included in the eu’s commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. eu-related carbon dioxide emissions from international shipping increased by 48% from 1990-2007. the eu climate and energy framework for 2030 sets a binding eu target of at least 40% reduction in ghg emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. in setting this target the eu identified the need for ghg emissions reduction in the transport sector. it is important that the regulation is proportionate and workable in practical terms. i therefore welcome efforts made to minimise the administrative burden on ship owners and operators through the use of records already available. the approach proposed for reporting emissions on an annual basis will benefit operators in british waters, and is to be welcomed. this agreement is an important first step in reducing co2 emissions in the sector without introducing unworkable administrative burdens on the shipping industry.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report on monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. at eu level, the international maritime sector today accounts for around 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase significantly in the future. an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ it is vital that we have effective co2 monitoring in the eu, which is why i voted in favour of this report on carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. by putting an eu system into place, it will be possible to monitor the shipping sector and encourage a reduction in emissions and fuel consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european statistics proposals. the proposal for a regulation called for a revision of the current basic legal framework for european statistics, adapting it to meet the policy needs and challenges created for european statistics by recent developments in the global economy. the main goal is to strengthen governance in the european statistical system in order to safeguard its high credibility and to respond adequately to data needs resulting from enhanced economic policy coordination in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation as it seeks to carry out a wholesale reform of the european statistical system in order to bring back confidence in european and national statistics.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that we were able to get a first reading agreement on european statistics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it will improve parliamentary scrutiny, strengthen the independence of the heads of national statistical institutes (nsi) in order to avoid political interference in the production of statistics. in addition, it will ensure equal opportunities, in particular on gender, in national bodies assuring the independence of the producers of statistics. the text also clarifies the relationships between the two main pillars of the production of european statistics: the european system of central banks (escb) and the european central bank and the commission (eurostat) which are called upon to coordinate the statistical activities of the institutions and bodies of the european union, in particular with a view to ensuring consistency and quality of the data and minimising the reporting burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the european statistics proposal. the proposal for regulation called for a revision of the current basic legal framework for european statistics, adapting it to meet the policy needs and challenges created for european statistics by recent developments in the global economy. the main goal is to further strengthen governance in the european statistical system in order to safeguard its high credibility and to respond adequately to data needs resulting from the enhanced economic-policy coordination in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important that we are able to have confidence in our european and national statistics and so i support this legislation for a wholesale reform of the european statistical system.
in writing. – the british conservative delegation recognises that there is a need for a fisheries management plan in baltic waters and approves of the multi-species approach taken in this plan. however, the british conservative delegation has concerns that the baltic plan is not consistent with article 3 (b) and (f) of the reformed cfp which advocates a regional approach and the involvement of the appropriate advisory councils. whist we have no opposition to the baltic sea plan, we believe that only the eight member states with direct fishing interests in the baltic sea, along with the baltic advisory council, should be involved in establishing specific fmsy ranges, lists of exploited species and eco-system management. we are alarmed by the variety of fmsy ranges which have been tabled by three different political groups and do not believe that this process is the best approach to regulating fishing activity in the baltic sea; we believe the establishment of such ranges is best left to those who work in an expert capacity on baltic sea stocks. for this reason, the british conservative delegation has abstained on all elements of this vote as well as the final vote.
in writing. ‒ president, i gave my support to the wałęsa report because it is vital that we ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat while providing stability for fishing opportunities. i applaud the fact that through this report, for the first time, we have implemented the principle that the amounts of fish caught are limited to their capacity to reproduce, and that these values are based on the latest scientific advice. i hope the council will prove it has grasped the urgency for a more sustainable approach by backing the ambitious measures called for by this house and support its use as a blueprint for the next management plans for fish stocks in other regions.
in writing. ‒ as the first multi-annual plan under the reformed cfp, the baltic sea plan will set a precedent – intended or not – for future multi-annual plans. it is therefore essential that the baltic sea plan maintains the ambition set out in the cfp, and is effective in its overall objective of restoring stocks of cod, herring and sprat, as well as ensuring that there are plans in place to maintain healthy stock levels of the compromised species of plaice, flounder, turbot and brill. i was initially concerned that the commission’s proposal did not make any allowance for fmsy ranges and indirectly appeared to condone overfishing – in contravention of the objectives of the reformed cfp. i strongly supported the position of the fisheries committee to set the upper limit of fishing mortality rates as fmsy, and therefore i have supported all amendments to article 4 which improve the commission text. the inclusion of exploitation rates of fmsy as the upper limit for mortality is urgently required to promote sustainable fisheries in baltic waters. i have also supported a number of amendments which promote the protection of sea birds and marine mammals in keeping with the eu’s marine strategy framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multiannual plan (map) for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the baltic map should ensure that the negative impact of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem is minimised and avoid destruction of the marine environment. this includes minimising the impact on seabirds, marine mammals and the integrity of the seabed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as for the first time we have implemented the principle that the amounts of fish caught are limited to their capacity to reproduce and that these values are based on the latest scientific advice. in that sense, the multiannual plan for the baltic sea could serve as a blueprint for the next management plans for fish stocks in other regions. multiannual plans under the reformed common fisheries policy (cfp) must be in line with the objectives of the cfp to ensure environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect the precautionary and the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
in writing. ‒ the general thrust of the commission proposal, that there is a need for a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea, is right. the multi-species management approach is much more effective than a management of single species. the plan should provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities – and thereby of the livelihoods of fishers. at the same time it should guarantee that the management would be based on the most up-to-date scientific advice regarding the status of stocks covered, interactions between species and other aspects related to ecosystem and fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the baltic multiannual plan is the first of its kind (a multi-species plan, rather than a single species plan) under the new common fisheries policy. given that this plan sets a number of precedents for the forthcoming plans (including the larger and more complicated north sea plan), there is a great desire from all parties to ensure this first plan is according to their vision.
in writing. – this proposal intends to establish a framework for the fisheries management of cod, herring and sprat (the three primary catches in the baltic sea). previously, each of these three had been managed separately. this multiannual plan (map) is the first management plan since reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and is the baltic sea’s first multi-species plan. northern ireland does not have any direct fishing interests in the baltic, but securing progress on this management plan will aid the development of any multiannual plans directly relevant to northern ireland. the commission intends to produce a multiannual plan for the north sea, so this map for the baltic sea is important in that it sets a precedent for future maps. i was therefore happy to support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted with the majority in favour of the multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the baltic map should ensure that the negative impacts of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem are minimised and to avoid destruction of the marine environment. this includes minimising the impact on seabirds, marine mammals and the integrity of the seabed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as a whole. the new baltic multiannual fisheries plan is the first of its kind and will be beneficial in a number of areas, for example on conservation and minimising the impact of fisheries on the wider environment.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to the cadec report because it is crucial that we finally bring an end to the discarding of marketable fish back into the sea, which has been proven to be bad for fish stocks, bad for the marine environment and costly for fishermen. crucial in gaining my support was the fact that the legislation will allow fishermen to adapt to the change, since it creates planning and legal certainty for commercial fisheries until new legislation in line with the reformed common fisheries policy is in place.
in writing. ‒ without taking sensible measures to ensure that our fish stocks are sustained, our fish stocks will eventually be depleted entirely, which will damage the uk fishing industry in the long term as well as negatively impacting consumers through higher prices due to reduced supply of fish and costs of imports. measures to ensure that fish stocks remain healthy and to prevent wastage are beneficial to consumers and the industry. i have stressed the need for a regionalised approach to these proposals as it is clear that a one-size-fits-all policy will not work and could negatively affect fishing regions that require a different approach to sustainability. i am also pleased to support the proposals that allow fisherman enough time to adapt to these new measures that will benefit the south-west fishing industry and fisheries in the long run.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for elimination of the wasteful practice of discarding. this will create planning and legal certainty for fishermen until new legislation in line with the reformed common fisheries policy is in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation as it provides for the implementation of one of the central objectives of common fisheries policy (cfp) reform – the elimination of the wasteful practice of discarding – and creates planning and legal certainty for fishermen until new legislation in line with the reformed cfp is in place.
in writing. – the reform of the common fisheries policy adopted by the legislator during the previous parliamentary term saw fundamental changes being made to the rules applicable to fisheries. more specifically, article 15 of the basic common fisheries policy regulation imposes a landing obligation for all catches. that obligation will enter into effect in a stepwise manner over the period 2015 to 2019. as a result, fishermen will have to land any catch that is unintended and non-marketable either because they do not have the quota for this or because it is under the minimum conservation reference size. since this landing obligation conflicts with several eu regulations currently in force, the commission has brought forward an ‘omnibus’ regulation which seeks to amend seven regulations in parallel so as to bring them into line with article 15 of the basic common fisheries policy regulation. under the current rules, fishermen have to discard any non-marketable catch. this situation is at odds with the landing obligation and must therefore be remedied.
in writing. ‒ the landing obligation was one of the great successes of common fisheries policy (cfp) reform and fishers across europe have been preparing for its implementation for many months (it applies from january 2015). it is our duty to ensure that the process of tidying up previous laws that conflict with the reform is done in the clearest and most coherent way, without delay. the new rules will ensure that fishers have greater legal clarity on the situation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in support of the landing obligation. it will be phased in from this year onwards and will end the discarding of marketable fish back into the sea, which has been proven to be bad for fish stocks, bad for the marine environment and costly for fishermen. the act of discarding used to occur in cases where fishermen would accidently catch fish which they did not have quota for, catch damaged or less profitable fish, or catch undersized fish which they could not sell.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the landing obligation. this will end the discarding of marketable fish back into the sea, which will bring benefits to fish stocks, the marine environment and be financially beneficial for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent to the landsbergis report given it concerns a simple procedural amendment of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol which takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu and the need to reflect this change in the existing partnership and cooperation agreement with russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is of a technical nature taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu and the need to reflect this change in the existing partnership and cooperation agreement with russia.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the procedural amendment as it takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted with the socialists & democrats group in support of the recommendation to consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes into account croatia’s accession to the eu in the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and russia.
in writing. ‒ over the past 15 years, the bologna process – aiming at ensuring comparability in the standards and quality of higher education qualifications – has accomplished a great deal in terms of the quality of education, mobility and academic recognition. overall, the bologna process has achieved a greater transparency and made information about european higher education easily accessible, using benchmarking of national performance against common objectives. while these accomplishments are commendable, some areas still need further development, and it is crucial to revitalise the bologna process to meet new challenges as well as to ensure the quality and transparency of the european higher education area. therefore, i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the łybacka report given it represents a crucial contribution to achieving sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning through the bologna process. over the past 15 years, the bologna process has accomplished a great deal in terms of the quality of education, mobility, and academic recognition. in the face of new challenges in the field of education, it is imperative the process is revitalised to ensure the continued quality and transparency of the european higher education area, a crucial foundation for our ambitious agenda on jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process has accomplished a great deal in terms of the quality of education, mobility and academic recognition. it has achieved a greater transparency and made information about european higher education easily accessible, using benchmarking of national performance against common objectives. however, some areas still need further development and it is crucial to revitalise the bologna process to meet new challenges as well as to ensure the quality and transparency of the european higher education area. i therefore voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
in writing. ‒ a coherent, transparent, and high-quality higher education sector is essential for cultural, economic and social development. the bologna objectives provide the essential means for european higher education to face current challenges. however, there is still much to be accomplished in fulfilling the goals of the bologna process. while it is clear that many achievements and significant structural convergence have been realised, new challenges have arisen. in order to face them and to reinvigorate the process, it is crucial to focus on the correct implementation of the current structure and tools, correct their shortcomings, and shift the educational approach to a more student and outcome-oriented one. it is also important to strengthen the links between higher education and research via the facilitation of dialogue between science and society and the promotion of beneficial uses of technological innovations in teaching and learning. in addition, there is a need to focus on better synchronisation of actions supporting the bologna process such as the horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes.
in writing. ‒ over the past 15 years, the bologna process – aiming at ensuring comparability in the standards and quality of higher education qualifications – has accomplished a great deal in terms of the quality of education, mobility and academic recognition. overall, the bologna process has achieved a greater transparency and made information about european higher education easily accessible, using benchmarking of national performance against common objectives. while these accomplishments are commendable, some areas still need further development and it is crucial to revitalise the bologna process to meet new challenges as well as to ensure the quality and transparency of the european higher education area. therefore, i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
in writing. ‒ today, along with my labour colleagues, i voted in support of the implementation of the bologna process. the aim of the bologna process was and remains to provide students with a wider and more transparent choice of high-quality educational opportunities as well as create a simplified process of recognition both internally and externally throughout the participating national higher education systems. in view of pursuing the eu goals of growth and a knowledge-based economy, the bologna process can play an important role in the revision of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ over the past 15 years, the bologna process – which aims to ensure comparability in the standards and quality of higher education qualifications – has been greatly successful in permitting a greater transparency and improved access to information in the field of european higher education. however, this is an area which it is important to develop.
in writing. ‒ over the past 15 years, the bologna process – aiming at ensuring comparability in the standards and quality of higher education qualifications – has accomplished a great deal in terms of the quality of education, mobility and academic recognition. overall, the bologna process has achieved a greater transparency and made information about european higher education easily accessible, using benchmarking of national performance against common objectives. while these accomplishments are commendable, some areas still need further development and it is crucial to revitalise the bologna process to meet new challenges as well as to ensure the quality and transparency of the european higher education area. therefore, i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
in writing. ‒ i supported the wenta report because the european films sector has the ability to make a very significant contribution to the realisation of the eu’s ambitious goals on culture, education and job creation and growth in the real economy. in order to tap the full potential of the sector, it is crucial we provide the support needed to assist it in grasping opportunities, as well as tackling the challenges, offered by the digital revolution. therefore it is imperative that the efficiency of funding systems be thoroughly evaluated, as well as the impact of european television stations of film production on smes that are active in the sector. understanding the importance of film literacy skills furthermore is vital for developing critical thinking in our education policies.
in writing. ‒ european cinema is at the heart of the cultural development of the eu and touches directly upon the identity of european citizens. the economic weight of the european film industry is also significant. to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online. i voted in favour of this report as i believe it sets up a good foundation to achieve the above.
in writing. ‒ the potential of the european film industry has yet to be fully exploited in the promotion of european cultural and linguistic diversity and heritage within and outside europe, as well as the creation of growth and jobs that can also benefit other sectors of the economy, providing europe with a competitive advantage at a global level. i voted in favour of this report as i believe it sets up a good foundation to achieve the above.
in writing. – the ecr group supports much of the content in this report, such as the recognition of the importance of rightholders and improving access to digital content. however we are cautious on raising the issue of vat into this particular text, in terms of offering the same reduced vat rates for online and offline content. this forms part of a much wider debate that must be duly considered – we support a legal framework that encourages entrepreneurship in the digital environment, but need to consider and understand the direct effects on digital goods which are easier to source across borders than physical goods. we also disagree with the notion that those organisations benefiting financially from european film should by default reinvest the proceeds into the making of european films. if they generate profit on the film rights they have legally obtained (such as by purchasing them), then how they distribute this revenue is their decision. the ecr group supported this report but we wish to put on record our reservations regarding certain issues contained within it, such as those outlined above.
in writing. ‒ ʽeuropean film in the digital eraʼ aims to support european film-making, and boost its promotion, distribution and visibility so that all europeans may reap the benefits of their cultural legacy.
in writing. ‒ the ecr group supports much of the content in this report, such as the recognition of the importance of rights holders and improving access to digital content. however we are cautious of raising the issue of vat into this particular text, in terms of offering the same reduced vat rates for online and offline content. while we may have sympathy with this idea in certain circumstances, this forms part of a much wider debate that must be duly considered – we support a legal framework that encourages entrepreneurship in the digital environment, but need to consider and understand the direct effects on digital goods which are easier to source across borders. we also disagree with the notion that those organisations benefiting from european film should by default reinvest the proceeds into the making of european films. if they generate profit on the film rights they have legally obtained, then how they distribute this revenue is their decision. the ecr group supported this report but we wish to put on record our reservations regarding certain issues contained within it, such as those outlined above.
in writing. ‒ european cinema is at the heart of the cultural development of the eu and touches directly upon the identity of european citizens. the economic weight of the european film industry is also significant. to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online. i voted in favour of this report as i believe it sets up a good foundation to achieve the above.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps voted in support of the report on european film in the digital era. to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european film industry. european cinema is vital in allowing the cultural development of the eu, impacts on the identity of european citizens and has a significant economic weight. it is important that legislation such as this is adopted in order to provide a stable and adaptable legal framework to encourage investment and diversity in the film industry.
in writing. ‒ european cinema is at the heart of the cultural development of the eu and touches directly upon the identity of european citizens. the economic weight of the european film industry is also significant. to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online. i voted in favour of this report as i believe it sets up a good foundation to achieve the above.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector. there were a number of positive aspects to this report. however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy. moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover. for these reasons i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ president, i supported the köstinger report because it's crucial we tap the full potential of forest management to mitigate climate change and create employment in rural areas, both in actual woodlands and in wood processing facilities, timber transport, as well as research and innovation facilities. given that the extensive use of wood opens up new possibilities for employment but also poses challenges in terms of supplying adequately educated and trained workforce, it's vital we now focus on the development of dedicated education and training to familiarize (future) workers in the sector with new technologies as well as constraints associated with the sustainable use of wood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which touches on all aspects of forestry. the report deals with employment in the sector and sustainable use of forest resources. it also addresses the need for people in europe to better understand the importance of our forests. indeed, forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts. one of the approaches to tackle climate change is to maximise the contribution of our forests which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor . management of forests is equally important from the point of view of creating employment in rural areas, both in actual woodlands and in wood processing facilities, timber transport, research and innovation facilities, etc.
in writing. ‒ forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts and one of the approaches to tackling climate change is maximising the contribution of our forests which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor. management of forests is also important from the point of view of creating employment in rural areas, both in actual woodlands and in wood processing facilities, timber transport, and research and innovation facilities. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ sustainable forest management means guaranteeing the long-term safety of the forest for future generations. indeed, this was the underlying principle of the un environmental conference in rio de janeiro in 1992: sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs and choose their own life style.
in writing. ‒ forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts. one of the approaches to tackling climate change is maximising the contribution of our forests, which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor. this contribution however has the potential to be bigger still – in three specific ways: through the enlargement of european forest cover, by the active management of our forests and by increasing the use of wood, of timber in both traditional ways and in new ways. the reasons why we need to manage our forests are not only limited to climate change mitigation. management of forests is equally important from the point of view of creating employment in rural areas, both in actual woodlands and in wood processing facilities, timber transport, research and innovation facilities, etc. nevertheless, extensive use of wood opens up new possibilities for employment but also poses challenges in terms of supplying an adequately educated and trained workforce, familiar with new technologies as well as the constraints associated with sustainable use of wood.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report on a new eu forest strategy. forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts. one of the approaches to tackling climate change is maximising the contribution of our forests which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor. this contribution however has the potential to be bigger still – in three specific ways: through the enlargement of european forest cover, by the active management of our forests and by increasing the use of wood, of timber in both traditional ways and in new ways.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on a new eu forest strategy for forests and the forest-based sector. it is important to manage our forests as not only are they major contributors to our effects to mitigate climate change, but they also create employment in areas such as in woodlands and in wood processing facilities.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the proposed new eu forest strategy, which would replace the now outdated 1993 version. the new strategy focuses on sustainable forest management and establishes objectives for the industry up to 2020, including job creation and contribution to a bio-based economy. it also addresses new issues like climate change, over-exploitation and loss of biodiversity. forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts and have the potential to make an even greater contribution. labour meps voted in favour of this report because this new forest strategy will increase european forest cover and enable us to actively manage our forests, creating skilled jobs while helping to combat climate change.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, never has a coherent and effective security strategy been more important to the security and safety of our citizens. the threats we face are evolving, growing and diversifying. we need a strategy that places both the protection of people’s lives and their liberties at its heart. my priorities are clear: the adoption of the eu pnr directive before the end of the year, as committed to by this parliament. in order for us to address the root causes of radicalisation, our fight against terrorism needs to be dynamic and diverse. we need to look at combating radicalisation in prisons, recruitment online, in schools and in communities, as well as equipping ourselves with essential law-enforcement tools to prevent and prosecute terrorist offences across borders. child exploitation online is on the increase and we need to make sure that europol has the resources to ensure that it can do the incredibly important work that it is charged with. member states need to start sharing information better, and they need to do it more quickly and more effectively. the commission needs to ensure that the legislation we already have is being implemented consistently across all countries and that we do not have weak links in our fight against criminality.
mr president, the epp meps and other colleagues eloquently outline the ways in which police forces and intelligence services can – and should – cooperate in order to combat terrorism, cybercrime, people trafficking and the rest. but this is not the point. police forces can – and do – cooperate, and have done so for very many years, long before the european union was even thought of. for example, the uk has been a member of interpol since 1923. there is also no cooperation greater than that which takes place between the uk and united states intelligence services and security services. the fact of the matter is that the police and intelligence services of all countries can cooperate – and indeed cooperate better – without the paraphernalia of a political union. it is a pity that point is never properly understood nor addressed.
mr president, the prime responsibility of any member state is to provide security for its citizens – and that security is being challenged. the eu strategy is a welcome holistic framework of security policies and tools in place to ensure a joint increased effort to address the rise in terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. cross—border cooperation and exchange of information between europol, european agencies and member states must be strengthened whilst upholding the right to freedom of movement and privacy of eu citizens. on the question of radicalisation, it must be stressed that there is a greater need to tackle the underlying causes and the complex nature of radicalisation. it must not only be tackled at eu level, but more so on the ground, at local level. transmitting values through education, together with the need for inter-faith and inter-cultural dialogue are key components of anti-radicalisation. no minority must feel threatened. this is a fundamental value whatever the belief, faith or background. hope, peace and security are a must for all european citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, we all agree that the fight against fraud must be a political priority. fraud and corruption undermines our democracy and our freedoms. however, i believe we should focus on enhancing and implementing the many tools we already have at our disposal such as olaf, eurojust, europol, the eio and the pif directive. we should not be committing more money, more resources and more national sovereignty when instead member states and the commission should enforce what we already have available. the most effective means of countering fraud is to stop it happening in the first place – i think we are all agreed about that. by simplifying the rules which govern the different sectors of the eu budget and improving the oversight of the budget we are best able to achieve that. another law, another agency, another one-size-fits-all policy to a very diverse problem is not really the best solution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i did make it clear in my remarks that we already have a considerable number of agencies available. i would be the first to criticise those agencies. i criticise them regularly because i do not think that they are always doing the job that they are meant to do. of course, the protection of european monies and resources is a matter of some priority, but i do not say that this particular idea and this new agency will make any difference, probably, to the need and the ability of those other agencies to fulfil their obligations. let us concentrate on what we have now, and get it right.
mr president, just yesterday the french president flaunted his deep contempt for meps when he said ‘france will never authorise any modification of parliament’s seat’. it seems therefore that the wasteful eu baggage train will roll in and out of strasbourg just about forever, and this waste would seem to be a suitable subject for the proposed prosecutor to address. but of course it will not happen. the president of france can go on being as contemptuous as ever. this report is also contemptuous of democracy. those who drafted the lisbon treaty knew perfectly well that a proposal for a european public prosecutor would be unacceptable to national governments and, indeed, 14 national parliaments have signified their veto. but a clause was inserted – disgracefully – so that member states could, via enhanced cooperation, proceed with a european public prosecutor. this is deplorable. however, the report does remind us of the corruption and fraud relating to eu funds: apparently more than eur 3 billion a year. what this demonstrates is that the eu is analogous to a species of parasite: the eu feeds off the taxpayer and, as the report says, eu money funds the costs of the eu’s own internal corruption. this proposal is a trojan horse: it would solve nothing and it destroys yet more national sovereignty. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– the question was typically gracious, but of course one of the complaints that my party makes is that european law is made superior to english common law, which is a far superior system. i would also say to anybody who is serious about the european parliament, and people like you are – i am not, i think it is a waste of time and a waste of money – that it is amazing that you can solemnly support the president of france in pursuing this disgrace of meeting in strasbourg twelve times a year.
madam president, our delegation is still formally reserving its position on the european public prosecutor’s office because we have not yet had the chance to scrutinise the details of the drafts in council, as was said earlier. in principle, however, the arguments in favour are compelling as long as proper safeguards on the issues of independence of prosecutors and defendants’ rights are in place. hundreds of millions, if not billions, of euros are lost each year due to fraud against the european union funds. in the uk, i am sorry to say, in contrast to things you have heard earlier, we do not take this issue seriously enough. in fact, if you compare it, for example, 38 issues were referred by the german government to the european fraud office in 2013 compared to only 4 by the uk. it is absolutely unacceptable that we do not have proper accounting lines within our indicators for statistics on eu fraud in the uk. the idea that the uk is a good example in this matter is completely untrue.
madam president, the question was asked of why we are discussing this today. let us be very clear that, following the very tortuous and difficult nsa inquiry, even the united states has begun a journey of international norms against economic espionage and is trying to protect citizens against this deeply unnecessary spying. spying against terrorism and our genuine security needs is important but, as the commissioner said, here we are dealing with companies in western europe and dealing with potential violation of – in this case – german law and european law. what are we talking about? we are talking about what the washington post and der spiegel said was a very big deal indeed. we are talking about two of our big member states – germany and france. while i am loathe to deal with individual member states, just as i had to deal with my own member state in relation to the nsa inquiry, we must as a parliament deal with the protection of our citizens against unnecessary violations of their privacy. that is what we are doing today. we are dealing with many allegations, and they are a big deal, as the washington post and der spiegel said. what must we do? we must ensure that we have oversight procedures. we do not have competence in this area but, as we said in the nsa inquiry, we must ask the member states to make progress in this area. they are clearly not doing this, and we are serving a reminder today that we must ask the member states to make concrete steps ahead. i also remind people that it was the bundestag and the individual member state that made progress here, not just journalists. it was individual members of the german parliament who tried to make progress and uncovered many of these revelations. they were right to do so, and members of the european parliament are right to do so when european law and fundamental rights are threatened.
rapporteur.– madam president, commissioner hill – the council is absent – colleagues, tomorrow we vote on a critical piece of financial legislation: the regulation of money market funds (mmfs). this is a eur 1 trillion industry too big to be ignored. the financial crisis has made it abundantly clear that these funds pose systemic risks and can lead to financial instability and recourse to the public purse. during the crisis, the key vulnerability was when investors wanted to liquidate funds quickly. these so-called runs meant that the asset managers had to close them down and the investors lost their money. the previous parliament failed to find an agreement on this file. from the beginning, when i took over, it was clear to me that this was an issue that strongly divided this house. between the supporters of the cnav mff and the vnav mff, each camp has about 50% of the market, and is supported by at least one member state and opposed sometimes by another – a bit like when you have two strong football teams in one city. the divisions experienced in this house are also mirrored in the council. therefore, i would like to remind colleagues that it is not our role as legislators to decide which team we should be supporting. both have their value to different investors. our role is to ensure that any type of mmf is transparent, liquid and stable so that we do not face the burdens of the 2008 financial crisis again, while recognising that mffs are of value to many types of businesses, local authorities and non-profits that support our economy and use mffs as a cash management tool. salaries and other funds are placed in mffs as these offer an easy return both in terms of interest and of liquidity. they can, and do, make a positive contribution to the real economy. however, it would be an understatement if i said that achieving a degree of understanding of each other’s point of view was straightforward when we looked at this report. but i am pleased that we did manage to find a compromise between the s&d, the epp and alde in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. what we have achieved, apart from strengthening the viability of the mff sector, is to introduce three new categories of funds – lvnav, retail cnav and public debt cnav. these solutions would not have been possible had it not been for the cooperation and flexibility demonstrated by many colleagues and especially the shadow rapporteurs. however, i have to say that i am disappointed that, despite taking many concerns of the gue/ngl, the greens and the ecr on board, that they did not support the proposal in committee. i do find it ironic that their preferred positions, for whatever reasons, would result in a totally unregulated mff sector being allowed to continue, which would put our fragile economic recovery at risk. i do find this baffling. for me it is important to get this on the statute books sooner rather than later. therefore, i would urge them to reconsider their positions and support this report so we can move to a trilogue stage from a greater position of strength. on that, i would also say to the council presidency – which is absent – that it is being made an offer that it cannot refuse in terms of achievements for the latvian presidency. i would thus ask commissioner hill to take this up with the presidency to ensure that it does move forward quickly. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the earlier italian presidency, which made considerable progress on this dossier and was instrumental in introducing me to the concept of lvnav.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the nearly eur 1 trillion currently invested in european money market funds serve an important purpose in our economy, providing corporations, governments and public bodies with a short-term investment vehicle that is a trusted alternative to bank financing. at a global level, the fsb has recommended measures to improve the safety of money market funds (mmfs) and to avoid runs through improved rules on transparency and diversification for mmfs, as well as limits on sponsored support. the initial proposals from the commission would have seen an end to the cnav industry, whilst failing to convince anyone that vnavs offer a wholly better or equivalent option. the ecr has argued consistently for both cnav and vnav mmfs to be able to continue, as they offer necessary and different services to our businesses and public bodies. they are not mutually exclusive, and we do not believe that one model is better than another. however, national bias has played an irresponsible role here. the alternative, low-volatility nav proposed by the rapporteur seems to be a workable compromise, and i thank her for her work on it. however, it is undermined by the review clause calling for an end for this authorisation within five years. that makes such vehicles unviable for providers and investors. improving diversification and transparency rules while allowing mmfs to function would serve the european economy and should be our sole goal.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, money market funds: not a single one caused a systemic risk during the course of the crash. money market funds: not a single person lost any money throughout the crash in europe. money market funds are essential for the real economy to work. but if you listen to the people in this chamber – such as the previous speaker we have just heard – money market funds were the cause of all the crises, the jobs, the unemployment, and the people dying and suffering in europe today. nothing could be further from the truth. but what is the truth? it is that in europe we have a crisis in our economies and we have a crisis of unemployment which is caused, firstly, by the euro itself and the impact it has on our economies and, secondly, the meddling of this chamber in the financial markets and business as a whole. we already know that in the united kingdom hsbc is considering leaving to go to asia because of eu regulations. asia is succeeding because europe is failing.
blue-card question. – you asked me a question, sir. it is very simple. did one european vnav fund collapse? did any investors in any european vnav funds lose any money? did any countries lose out or have to bail out vnav funds? i think you will find that the answer to all of them is no. you are simply creating a problem that did not exist, are you not?
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank commissioner hill and all my colleagues for their remarks. i strongly believe that we do have a sound and stable agreement. on the clause: we have to recognise that this agreement is the result of lengthy negotiations which entailed give and take by all. i have stated from the beginning that this clause is a red line for my group. i am not convinced that it will prevent the lvnav (low-volatility net asset value) from taking off. i think the financial sector is very innovative and i am sure they will make it work. i also wanted to raise the issue the greens and the gue/ngl group have pointed out. i think they have a very fundamentalist view on this file. it is all about their point of view and nothing else. when you look at it broken down, it means protection of one part of the industry and not the other. what really concerns me is that this approach will lead to nothing at all and a continued unregulated mmf sector. even if i have sympathy with some elements of your proposals, i do not believe this is the place where they should be included. on other issues, i am frustrated by the inconsistent approach because earlier you wanted a clause at ten years and then it came down to five years, which is what we have at the moment. i want to take this opportunity to thank everybody who has been involved. i want to start by thanking brian hayes, petr ježek, eva joly, fabio de masi, syed kamall and their teams for spending a huge amount of time in a fishbowl-shaped room for hours negotiating on this. thank you to them. i would also like to thank my coordinator, elisa ferreira, for all the support and engagement that she has had, roberto gualtieri for his engagement, stine and the secretariat and my own assistant, jan moens, for their support. without you i would not have got here.
mr president, we are operating with a significantly reduced mff so our priority has to be to make sure that the money we do have works harder. that means a significant change in attitude and culture amongst many of the european institutions with spending responsibilities. in future the yardstick by which we measure performance must be added value and value for money. much of that was evidenced in this audit report and i particularly thank the auditors for highlighting the need for greater transparency and accountability, for budget discipline and for compliance. i suggest that this can be best achieved by this house adopting a greater role over quality and performance auditing. in taking this opportunity to thank the president and members of the court, can i express a wish that we can find ways to work together to achieve a much more outcome-driven budgeting performance; better, more informed prioritisation; better performance monitoring and better value for money. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr ashworth, would you agree, when we discussed the budget and budgetary control (which you did mention rather well), that there is in fact a fault line that cannot be bridged between the 11 member states of the european union that pay out money and the 17 member states or so of the european union that receive money? that fault line cannot be bridged. there is a basic conflict of interest and an insuperable one. would you agree?
blue-card answer.– if you insist on maximising fault lines you will never achieve a european union of 28 states which choose to work together. i suggest we find the elements we have in common, the areas where we wish to work together, and maximise those and stop talking about fault lines and where we do not cooperate.
mr president, in the eur 155 billion budget there are lots of budget lines that are worthy of discussion. for the moment i will leave aside the budget line relating to the 35 staff members, including an usher, that are allocated to the president of parliament. these are the baubles, bangles and beads of that office, an office which itself is a form of political costume jewellery. i am specifically going to address the budget line that relates to the instrument for pre-accession that is paid out to candidate countries. this was eur 11.5 billion for the years 2007-2013 and another eur 11.7 billion has already been allocated for 2014-2020. the context for candidate countries is, as mr juncker has stated, and i quote: ‘in the next five years no new members will be joining us in the european union’. it is therefore very hard to understand why candidate countries will be receiving pre-accession funding at this level. indeed, it is hard to understand why they are receiving pre-accession funding at all. one egregious abnormality in this is the amount of pre-accession funding that is going to turkey. today’s turkey systematically violates human rights and in a further outrage has yet to acknowledge what happened a hundred years ago. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i was simply pointing out the very large sums of money allocated under the instrument for pre-accession funding, which incidentally most people are not aware of, certainly not in the uk. this is despite the fact that, as i indicated, and mr juncker has said – it is not me saying it – no new members will be joining in the next five years. it makes absolutely no sense at all and it is a large waste of money, and it is anticipating an eventuality that probably may not arise. i very much hope that it does not, especially in the case of turkey. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– lord dartmouth, do you not think there is just a little tinge of hypocrisy in your contribution this evening, bearing in mind the financial issues which have attended upon the united kingdom independence party over the last few years? do you really feel particularly secure in the remarks you are making and the details in particular?
blue-card answer.– i would just say one thing: that is a cheap debating point which has got no validity and is unworthy of your political group, unworthy of your political party and unworthy of you who, in other contexts, i have tremendous respect for.
mr president, i would like to thank the court of auditors for the work it has put into the discharge. as one of the shadows on the agencies report i wanted to concentrate on that in my contribution and to thank the rapporteur for his work. the s&d group will be following the budget control committee’s position and vote to grant discharge on all the agencies except the european institute of innovation & technology (eit). however i would hope that the eit can show enough progress in the coming months to allow us to grant it discharge also later this year. the s&d group has put down a number of amendments to the horizontal report, mainly relating to staffing issues. for example, we oppose the imposition of extra staffing cuts above those already-agreed targets. additionally we would oppose cuts which would mean that the agencies would have difficulty in fulfilling their mandates. indeed some of the agencies, according to the agencies network, are already having difficulties because of a lack of staff. we believe staffing budgets should be based on how each agency has to fulfil its mandate and not based on arbitrary figures or indeed arbitrary cuts. we also believe that agencies which get their funding from fees should have greater flexibility in their staffing requirements.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner very much too. i think we all acknowledge that youth unemployment is a very serious issue and that there is a clear need for action, so i support this proposal to enable resources that have been allocated to be used in a way to speed up the implementation in member states. but i also have concerns that pre-financing may lead to pressure on the fund further down the line and that in a couple of years we will be asked to vote for additional funds to be allocated to the youth employment initiative (yei). my group has always called for budget discipline and results-based policymaking and the yei must be no exception to this, so we must monitor the results. in order to have real impact we need to work with the member states to devise tailored solutions that meet the local challenges they face. so in the uk, the government has used the youth employment initiative to complement government programmes. in my own region in the west midlands they have extended the money through the local enterprise partnership so that they can provide apprenticeships and work experience and so on. i am pleased to report that in the west midlands we have seen 2.2 million new apprenticeships started in the last five years.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, my parents went to britain for a better life – a better life for them and their future children – and had they not taken that step, had they not left their homes, my life would be very different. so when i see poverty, or when i see tragedies like this, my heart wishes that we were able to offer that same opportunity to everyone, but my head tells me that we cannot. so to solve this crisis there is no easy answer. to those who say that we should turn everyone away, or those who say that we should let everyone in: you are both wrong. so when listening to the council and the commission we have to ask ourselves: can we find a way for those fleeing persecution to seek asylum without having to make this perilous journey, and can we do this without creating massive camps on that side of the mediterranean? i very much hope that the commission and the council can address those particular questions. but those who seek asylum should be told quickly if they meet the criteria and if they are unsuccessful they should be returned quickly. if they are offered refuge, will it be permanent or will countries be able to ask them to return home when the reason for their asylum is no longer relevant? so last week’s council was really an important step forward: help for rescue operations, targeting people traffickers who profit and prey on the misery of others, helping to alleviate the problems of those at the sharp end. but in reality we will not solve this problem in the long term until we stabilise the region and we know, we all know, that this will take time, but our member states must do all they can with the tools available to them – diplomacy, targeted aid and open trade. but we also need to seek to distinguish between economic migration and helping genuine asylum seekers. the asylum system must not be conflated with a migration system, otherwise we undermine public trust in both. asylum must be about people running for their lives, not for those who understandably want a better economic life. so seeking new forms of legal migration will not resolve this problem. people talk about the blue-card system, but that is aimed at attracting skilled migrants, not people fleeing for their lives. some speak of compulsory shared solidarity, but where is the talk of mutual trust that is sadly lacking between our member states? let us not forget that 75 % of asylum applications take place in six countries – germany, sweden, italy, france, hungary and the united kingdom – and some of those countries are already facing pressures over legal migration. and let us not forget that tiny islands like lampedusa see tens of thousands of people set sail for them. so if we want to stop these tragedies we have to start answering difficult questions. are we prepared to help process applications swiftly and discourage people from making a journey? are we prepared to target and take out the people traffickers? are we prepared for those eu countries with little immigration to take more of those fleeing persecution, to reduce the pressure, to reduce the suffering, and to reduce the tragic scenes that we see on the borders of eu countries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i was rather hoping for a question, but thank you very much for your speech. i have to say, i am a little bit surprised by what you are saying, because my story is obviously a very personal story, but my parents were seeking a better economic life. here we are talking about people fleeing persecution, and part of the problem of this debate is that we are deliberately confusing legal migration and helping those in need, and we have to put an end to that deliberate confusion. at the same time we have to be quite clear, and i was quite clear in my speech: we should not shut our borders and let no one in and turn a blind eye, but neither should we go down the road that you propose, which is to let everyone in. we have to process applicants fairly and let in those who genuinely are seeking refuge on our shores.
blue-card question.– you made an accusation that mr farage has made up the allegation that tens of thousands of isis and terrorists will be coming to this european continent. are you therefore saying that the information from those people who have warned us about this, the united nations and the uk’s own security service who have warned us about tens of thousands, are all lies? are you saying that the statements from isis themselves who said they are going to send tens of thousands are all lies?
mr president, i would suggest that the word ‘despicable’ is thoroughly unparliamentary and should be withdrawn.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, four years ago i stood here and said that bombing libya would be a huge mistake, but of course the uk parliament and this parliament were desperate. there was a clamour to go to war. so now we have a failed state of libya, which is now a conduit being used for criminal trafficking gangs trying to bring people to europe. we are guilty for this crisis, we are directly guilty for the drownings that are going on, and we are hypocrites in this place when we talk about poverty in africa, when we pursue a common agricultural policy that puts barriers up to them selling us their agricultural produce, where we have a fisheries policy that rapes and pillages their seas and has caused environmental destruction, and we just assuage our consciences by giving away a bit of foreign aid. i am not blind to the human suffering that we have caused in many of these countries. i would call on this parliament, this commission to end the barriers to trade, to stop the fisheries policy, to ask the united nations to get involved and to try and help. but the real question we face is: what are we to do? are we to go down the australian system in dealing with this crisis (and indeed the australian premier, tony abbott, has offered us his advice and help). australia faced this and australia not only have stopped the boats from coming, they have stopped people from drowning. but no, we are not interested in what the australians have done; we have decided that we can deal with this on our own. so we decided that people can come and that people will not be sent back. now i suspect that it would be a hell of a shock to many european citizens, including the british, to understand that we have already agreed a common european asylum system, and what today is about and today’s resolution is the direct implementation of it. the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is this: the definitions for who qualifies for asylum are so wide, they include not just people coming from war, not just people coming from failed states; mr juncker, this morning, seemed to suggest that perhaps he would even include people who were fleeing poverty. i am sorry, we simply cannot accept countless millions. already in countries like mine, 77% of the population say we cannot take immigration at current levels. but there is a real and genuine threat. when isis say they want to flood our continent with half a million islamic extremists, they mean it, and there is nothing in this document that will stop those people from coming. indeed, i fear we face a direct threat to our civilisation if we allow large numbers of people from that war-torn region into europe. it is ironic that nine days before a british general election, mr cameron and mr miliband are not engaged in this debate, and in fact the uk can do nothing. we are impotent; we have surrendered our ability to get involved. i promise my party will stand up to this impending disaster for all concerned. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do accept, mr lamberts, that our failed policy of state-sponsored multiculturalism has led to a fifth column inside many of our countries. however, the number of those is mercifully small compared to the number of islamic extremists committing the most bestial acts on a daily basis right across that region. this policy has no means and no way of filtering out extremists in favour of people fleeing in genuine fear of their lives, and, as such, we are making a massive mistake. let us follow the example of australia, let us do everything we can to reverse the hypocrisy of groups like yours that have voted to make africa poorer. let us do those things, but if the message is that anybody that comes will be accepted, we are headed for disaster.
madam president, europe must act decisively. every effort should be made to save lives, create stability in conflict regions and assist member states overwhelmed by the challenges they face. but many in this parliament believe that the solution lies in more forms of legal migration and binding quotas. my group did not sign the joint resolution, because such actions merely address the symptoms rather than the causes. member states need to commit more resources and offer more humanitarian resettlement and aid. we need efficient asylum processing and an expedient return system. frontex, europol and the european asylum support office (easo) need to be better equipped. lives can be saved by not allowing trafficking vessels to depart in the first place and by cutting off the fortunes that are being made by human traffickers. this needs urgent cooperation with third countries to be achieved. true and meaningful solidarity is gained through trust, a moral imperative and a sense of responsibility which can never be created through compulsion. i would say to mr farage (who, for the moment, seems to have emigrated or sought asylum elsewhere in this country): of course it is wrong to confuse immigration and asylum. but to deliberately confuse immigration and terrorism is disgraceful and unacceptable. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr kirkhope, thank you for reminding us that together we must work on helping the source of the problem. how important is international development aid? what more can we do to encourage member states to live up to those vital millennium development goals? and mr kirkhope, happy birthday!
blue-card answer.– i cannot answer that question very well. all over the world there are, of course, different approaches. the australia system was also referred to and it is an australian system that suits australia for migration. if mr farage likes australia and its system so much, perhaps he should now move there. but, frankly, as someone a little bit older today, i doubt very much whether mr farage would ever pass the points test set by the australian government.
madam president, i thoroughly agree with those who are saying we need to address the causes, but most doctors also look at symptoms. safe routes are crucial for those fleeing persecution or who are at risk of serious harm. we should also remember that millions actually do stay in the region – just ask the governments of lebanon and jordan, for example. those countries will need our long—term support. i think some members in this house would do well to remember that in certain member states it would actually be a criminal offence to offer shelter to somebody in an irregular situation. that is another situation we should be changing in terms of european law. the european union can do more. we can use the common european asylum system that we have much better. for example, the dublin regulation does not mean that you have to return people to the country of entry. member states can offer solidarity and deal with those claims in their own countries without return. so can we please use the system that we have got, make it more humanitarian and actually stop letting people die at sea.
mr president, mr farage and marine le pen like to have a poster boy of australia. let us be very clear: last year – and every year – australia admits 200 000 legal migrants, 13 750 settled refugees. this illustrates a very clear and simple fact: that this is a complex issue and there are no simple, populist solutions. the commission came here today with a plan, and i hear from my colleagues that they understand that triton and what we have heard from the council do not represent adequate solutions. we got inadequacy from the council last week but we had a plan today from many of my colleagues. we understand the humanitarian imperatives and we understand that we have to save lives. but we also understand that we have complex solutions concerning resettlement, we have responsibility-sharing and we are not all in this together. if we ask, a month from now, whether malta or italy has a real plan that has worked, will the answer be yes? it will not be ʽyesʼ, because the council was dragged kicking and screaming to this meeting. it did not give us the action we needed. we are hearing it now today from most members, who believe in the values of the european union. let us ensure that the majority who spoke here today have their way and that with the commission we get the plan that we need.
mr president, in this migration debate, when i say we should seek to resolve and prevent conflict wherever it is found, and when my own party leader said in a speech last week of the whole international community that post-conflict planning had failed in libya, both of these should carry widespread support. sadly, in the british election campaign, conservatives chose to wholly falsely characterise this statement as attributing responsibility for deaths of migrants to david cameron personally – something that neither ed miliband nor anyone else in the labour party ever said. i lament the fact that our opponents seem more worried by the vote count than the body count. in my country, when all parties come together to sing the royal naval hymn, ‘eternal father’, our lament should be a united one for all at risk: oh, hear us when we cry to thee, for those in peril on the sea! on migrant deaths we should all honour those words.
in writing.– more than 1 750 people have perished since the start of the year alone and this crisis is going to get worse unless we change our policies. people in scotland, europe and members of this chamber, by large, expressed a clear demand for immediate action to prevent further loss of life in the mediterranean. europe’s states cannot ignore the tragedy unfolding on our doorstep. politicians and policy-makers must stop weighing up the political and economic costs and worry about the impact on their own immigration and asylum statistics. rescuing people at sea is our obligation, driven by human decency and each eu member state should share in that effort. we all know that the european response to this crisis has been woefully inadequate and it shames us all. the numbers of migrants are significant, but we could cope. instead, the european states have left it as a local problem for southern europe. this approach has resulted in unprecedented tragedy. lessons must be learnt! we must support our colleagues in italy and greece, malta, cyprus and spain. people are dying trying to reach europe’s shores and this is not their problem, this is our problem and we must assume responsibility.
mr president, i do not understand the rationalisation for the delay. if the party is disorganised, they are disorganised. why should everyone else have to wait for them? these are important votes, we have electors we are responsible for, and we should get on with the vote. (applause)
mr president, the next 30 czarnecki reports have no amendments tabled to them, so i wonder whether article 174(7) of our rules could be applied by analogy. this allows for a block vote on amendments. (applause)perhaps, by analogy, the same rule could be used exceptionally in this case for the individual reports in question, none of which have any amendments tabled for them, and all of which, i am quite sure, have a majority in this house.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ dear mr president, i voted against this section of the 2013 discharge as it highlights a worrying lack of accountability on behalf of the commission for its own spending. i am dismayed to see that the report cites a lack of proper checks for various funds, especially agricultural since they account for the largest proportion of eu spending. when many member states are still experiencing austerity measures it is worrying to see the waste highlighted in this report.
in writing. ‒ president, i welcome the progress made and call on the commission as well as the other institutions for a performance orientated on transparency and good governance in europe. i reject points tabled by right wing political groups which are overly critical and at times inaccurate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i welcome the progress made and call on the commission as well as the other institutions for a performance orientated on transparency and good governance in europe. i reject points tabled by right-wing political groups which are overly critical and at times inaccurate.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress made and call on the commission as well as the other institutions for a performance orientated on transparency and good governance in europe. i reject points tabled by right wing political groups which are overly critical and at times inaccurate.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress made and call on the commission as well as the other institutions for a performance orientated on transparency and good governance in europe. i reject points tabled by right wing political groups which are overly critical and at times inaccurate.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress made and call on the commission as well as the other institutions for a performance orientated on transparency and good governance in europe. i reject points tabled by right-wing political groups which are overly critical and at times inaccurate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu general budget with regards to the european commission and executive.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that these kinds of programmes should be dealt with at european level; rather, countries should take these decisions for themselves.
in writing. ‒ president, i find it completely unacceptable that unemployment strikes 5 million young people across europe and 743,000 in the uk. in my region of the west midlands, over 16% of people aged between 16 and 24 don't have a job. i therefore voted in favour of amending the european social fund which would allow for an increase in pre-financing as part of the youth employment initiative, meaning that previously agreed funding could be accessed at the beginning of a scheme to allow for quick implementation. this would help to ensure every young person gets a job, an apprenticeship, traineeship or professional training within four months of becoming unemployed. i find it deeply disappointing that david cameron chose not implement the youth guarantee, using the money to prop up his heavily criticised youth contract as part of his work programme, which delivered less than 13% of the 160,000 promised work placements and offered a job to less than 1 in 3 of young people referred to it. we cannot afford to waste more time when the future of our young people is at stake.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to boost the financing of the youth employment initiative. this would mean that previously agreed funds can be accessed at the launch of a scheme, so that it can be implemented quickly. labour meps led the campaign in creating the yei, which is available in regions where more than 25% of 15-25 year olds are unemployed. every young person should have the possibility of getting a job, an apprenticeship or professional training within four months of becoming unemployed.
in writing. ‒ in the uk, where under-25s are now three times more likely to be unemployed than the rest of the population, adoption of the european youth guarantee is critical. without a trained, supported and resilient young workforce, growing a strong economy will be merely a pipedream. in 2013, tees valley and county durham was identified as one of uk five regions with unemployment levels so high that they qualify for an additional £20 million worth of eu funding, however we have seen that urgent investment in our young delayed as a result of the uk government's incompetence. today, i supported the european commission's proposal to boost the youth employment initiative (yei), which will allow the frontloading of european social fund co-financing to support the role out of the yei. but i have also raised regional concerns directly with the commission about the speed with which money will need to be spent before 2018. we want sustainable solutions not a flash-flood after a drought. as labour mep for one of the worst affected regions in the uk, i have made tackling youth unemployment a top priority. it should be the priority of every politician to fight this scourge on our societies.: see minutes: see minutes: see minutes: see minutes
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the increase of the initial pre-financing amount paid to operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. youth unemployment levels have been alarmingly high for several years now and are continuing to rise. the eu has developed a number of tools to help member states deal with this scourge, which is affecting so many young people. the youth employment initiative (yei) is one of those tools, and its purpose is to contribute to the achievement of the policy objectives linked to the youth guarantee in the parts of europe worst affected by youth unemployment. the commission proposal will encourage member states to use the additional funds as soon as possible to finance projects in the areas where needs are greatest.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment in europe remains very high with 4.85 million young people, under the age of 25, out of a job. it is vital that this is tackled, which is why i supported this proposal to boost the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ this vote is for an amendment to the european social fund that would allow for an increase in pre-financing as part of the youth employment initiative (yei). this would mean that previously agreed funds can be accessed at the launch of a scheme, so that it can be implemented quickly. labour meps led the campaign in creating the yei, which is available in regions where more than 25% of 15-25 year olds are unemployed. the european commission encourages member states to use this funding to provide a youth guarantee, which would ensure that all young people under the age of 25 get an offer of good quality employment, continuing education, apprenticeship or traineeship after an extended period of unemployment or leaving formal education.
in writing. ‒ this was a technical update and i felt it consistent therefore to abstain.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the lange report because to repeal the obsolete regulation on the management of textile imports which is now dealt with in other ways.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support repealing the obsolete regulation on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries as it is now dealt with in other ways.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the repeal of this obsolete regulation on the management of textile imports which is now dealt with in other ways.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the repeal of this obsolete regulation on the management of textile imports which is now dealt with in other ways.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted to support repealing the obsolete regulation on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries as it is now dealt with in other ways.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the repeal of this regulation on the management of textile items which is now dealt with in other ways.
in writing. ‒ along with my eplp and s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it ensures that clear and user-friendly import rules are fully in line with legal provisions of the treaties for the import of textile products for the two countries, which do not fall under any other trading rules with the eu.
in writing. ‒ the uk should be in charge of its own relationship with norway and we are therefore opposed to the eu regulating it on our behalf. this is a proposal to consolidate regulation no. 1692/73 of the council of 25 june 1973. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ president,i voted in favour of the duda report given this concerns a technical matter and the proposal fully preserves the contents of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ : i voted in favour of the report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the eec and norway. it is part of a larger group of consolidating files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with norway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is simply a part of a larger group of purely consolidating/codifying files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with norway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is part of a larger group of purely consolidating/codifying files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with norway
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the eec and norway. it is part of a larger group of consolidating files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with norway.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to consolidate and codify files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with norway
in writing. ‒ this will consolidate council regulation 1616/2006. i voted against, for the same reasons as in the previous vote on norway.
in writing. ‒ president,i voted in favour of the duda report given this concerns a technical matter and the proposal fully preserves the contents of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and albania. it is part of a larger group of codifying files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with albania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is simply a part of a larger group of purely consolidating/codifying files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with albania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is part of a larger group of purely consolidating/codifying files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with albania.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and albania. it is part of a larger group of codifying files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with albania.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and albania.
in writing. ‒ this will consolidate council regulation 594/2008. i voted against, for the same reasons as in the previous vote on norway.
in writing. ‒ president,i voted in favour of the duda report given this concerns a technical matter and the proposal fully preserves the contents of the acts being codified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and bosnia and herzegovina. it is part of a larger group of codifying files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is a part of a larger group of purely consolidating/codifying files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with bosnia-herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is part of a larger group of purely consolidating/codifying files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with bosnia-herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted in favour of the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and bosnia and herzegovina. it is part of a larger group of codifying files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the application of the stabilisation and association agreement and of the interim agreement on trade between the ec and bosnia
in writing. ‒ this will consolidate council regulation 153/2002. i voted against, for the same reasons as in the previous vote on norway.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in support of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia given it concerns a technical matter which aims to implement changes already in force in the relationship with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is part of a larger group of codifying files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it is simply a part of a larger group of purely consolidating/codifying files in order to bring changes already in force in the relationship with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is part of a larger group of codifying files in order to bring about changes already in force in the relationship with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important to note in the context of this report that the vote was merely based on codification and was not concerned with the actual application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu. at this stage it is not the substance of the provisions which is being voted on. it instead concerns codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ this will consolidate council regulation 1616/2006. i voted against, for example because it centralises power in the hands of the commission for certain block exemption regulations. the ukip position is that such matters should be the responsibility of national governments not the european union.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the duda report given it concerns a technical matter that aims at the consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments
in writing. ‒ i welcome the approval of the report on the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the commission has already been given the power to adopt regulations to declare that certain categories of aid are compatible with the internal market and as such do not need to be notified under art 108(3) tfeu, including aid in favour of smes, research and innovation, environmental protection, employment and training, natural disaster recovery etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it simply aims at consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is part of a series simply aiming at consolidation of legislation to react to recent developments and relates to the substantial amendments of regulation 994/98 which it repeals.
in writing. ‒ today i welcomed the approval of the report on the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the commission has already been given the power to adopt regulations to declare that certain categories of aid are compatible with the internal market and as such do not need to be notified under art 108(3) tfeu, including aid in favour of smes, research and innovation, environmental protection, employment and training, natural disaster recovery etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which consolidates legislation on state aid in light of recent developments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is important to note in the context of this report that the vote was merely based on codification and was not concerned with the actual application of article 108 tfeu. at this stage it is not the substance of the provisions which is being voted on. it instead concerns codification. codification of legal texts is an important tool as it leads to greater legal certainty and clarity. this is important as if you do not codify the text the former several amended versions of the texts stay. codification, is, in a nutshell a simplification. any proposal that provides greater legal clarity and transparency should be welcomed as it's the complex nature of such texts which frequently leads to unnecessary legal challenges often at the taxpayers' expense.
in writing. ‒ this will consolidate council regulation 659/1999. i voted against, for the same reasons as in the previous vote on horizontal state aid.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the duda report given it concerns an uncontroversial codification to take into account all of the changes in the acquis on the application of art 108, including commission working guidelines
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on rules for the application of article 108 tfeu. this is simply a codification to take into account all of the changes in the acquis on the application of article 108, including commission working guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as this is simply a codification to take into account all of the changes in the acquis on the application of art 108, including commission working guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is simply a codification to take into account all of the changes in the acquis on the application of art 108, including commission working guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on rules for the application of article 108 tfeu. this is simply a codification to take into account all of the changes in the acquis on the application of article 108, including commission working guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes into account all of the changes in the acquis on the application of article 108, including commission working guidelines.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ president, the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. they deserve thorough consideration by the parliament in order to assess where improvements can be made.
in writing. ‒ the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. they deserve thorough consideration by parliament in order to assess where improvements can be made.
in writing. ‒ these special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. they deserve thorough consideration by the parliament in order to assess where improvements can be made.
in writing. ‒ the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. they deserve thorough consideration by the parliament in order to assess where improvements can be made.
in writing. ‒ the special reports of the court of auditors give in-depth analysis of the delivery of specific funding programme areas and provide considerable detail on the administration of particular policy areas. they deserve thorough consideration by parliament in order to assess where improvements can be made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for the discharge of these reports.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' found that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the year 2013 present fairly and that the results of their operations, their cash flows and the changes in net assets for the year-end, are in accordance with the provisions of the edf financial regulation and with internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector. i agree with the court’s findings and have voted in favour of discharge for the eight, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors found that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the year 2013 present fairly and that the results of their operations, their cash flows and the changes in net assets for the year-end, are in accordance with the provisions of the edf financial regulation and with internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector. i agree with the court’s findings and have voted in favour of discharge for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i note with concern the issues both the court and the committee identified with regards to eit, however i welcome eit’s commitment to making improvements and look forward to their progress report in september.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors found that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the year 2013 present fairly and that the results of their operations, their cash flows and the changes in net assets for the year-end, are in accordance with the provisions of the edf financial regulation and with internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector. i agree with the court’s findings and have voted in favour of discharge for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the court of auditors' findings on the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the year 2013 and have voted in favour of discharge of the report.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i am pleased that the court of auditors did not find any serious weaknesses in the topics audited and i support the constructive recommendations identified in the report which aim to improve processes.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the court of auditors did not find any serious weaknesses in the topics audited and i support the constructive recommendations identified in the report which aim to improve processes.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the court of auditors did not find any serious weaknesses in the topics audited and i support the constructive recommendations identified in the report which aim to improve processes.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the court of auditors did not find any serious weaknesses in the topics audited and i support the constructive recommendations identified in the report which aim to improve processes.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the court of auditors did not find any serious weaknesses in the topics audited and i support the constructive recommendations identified in the report which aim to improve processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as a whole and am pleased that there were no serious weaknesses in the topics audited, however i remain concerned about certain areas and am committed to a single seat campaign in order to make significant savings.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii – european council and council. the report helps to bring insight into the eu budget mechanism and the way in which the budget has been managed and spent in 2013, including the different expenses of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the committee's decision to postpone the discharge. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 for the european council and council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge of the budget on the european council and council.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, given the positive reports on the european external action service i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which helps to bring insight into the eu budget mechanism and the way in which the budget has been managed and spent within the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service. i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 for the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge of this report on the budget of the european external action service
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, given the positive reports on the court of justice i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive report on the court of justice. i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this discharge of the budget for the court of justice
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. – president, given the positive reports on the court of auditors i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ - czarnecki: i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive report on the court of auditors. i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 for the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, given the positive reports on the economic and social committee i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive report on the economic and social committee. i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i was in favour of granting discharge of the report on the eu budget of the economic and social committee
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, given the positive reports on the committee of the regions i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive report on the committee of the regions. i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the eu budget of the committee of the regions in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, given the positive reports on the european ombudsman i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive report on the european ombudsman. i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 for the european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on granting discharge to the eu general budget of the european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, given the positive reports on the european data protection supervisor i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive report on the european data protection supervisor. i voted in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive reports on the european external action service, court of auditors, court of justice, economic and social committee, committee of the regions, european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor. i note that the council sees itself on the same level as the two arms of the eu budgetary authority and as such has failed to provide relevant information required for the discharge process. i urge the council and the parliament to negotiate an agreement on this issue.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge on the budget of the european data protection supervisor
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i note with concern the issues both the court and the committee identified with regards to eit, however i welcome eit’s commitment to making improvements and look forward to their progress report in september.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge of the report performance, financial management and control of eu agencies
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the discharge of this report on the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge of this report on the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i approved of the decision to discharge the report on the translation centre for the bodies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european centre for the development of vocational training is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision to discharge the report of the european centre for the development of vocational training
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european centre for the european police college (cepol) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to discharge the report of the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european centre for the european aviation safety agency (easa) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i was in favour of this decision to discharge the report on the european aviation safety agency
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european centre for the european asylum support office (easo) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european asylum support office
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european centre for the european banking authority (eba) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to discharge the report on the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european centre for disease protection and control.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am often hesitant to grant discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. however, in my capacity as the envi committee’s contact person for echa, i am satisfied with the echa budget and am happy to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european chemicals agency (echa) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european environment agency (eea) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european fisheries control agency (efca) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am often hesitant to grant discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. however, having worked closely with efsa as a member of the envi committee, i am satisfied with the efsa budget and am happy to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european food safety authority (efsa) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european institute for gender equality (eige) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i note with concern the issues both the court and the committee identified with regards to institute for innovation and technology (eit), however i welcome eit’s commitment to making improvements and look forward to their progress report in september.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to postpone the discharge, as i note with concern the issues both the court and the committee identified with regards to eit. however, i welcome eit’s commitment to making improvements and look forward to their progress report in september.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report regarding the european institute of innovation and technology. i approve of the committee's decision to postpone the discharge and while i note with concern the issues that have been raised by the court and the committee, i welcome eit's commitment to making improvements and look forward to their progress report in september.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am often hesitant to grant discharge for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. however, having worked closely with ema as a member of the envi committee, i am satisfied with the ema budget and am happy to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european medicines agency (ema) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european maritime safety agency (emsa) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european union agency for network and information security is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european railway agency (era) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european securities and markets authority (esma) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european training foundation (etf) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support granting discharge in this case, as i do not believe that discharge should be granted on any part of the eu budget, until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the euratom supply agency (euratom) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofond) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european union's judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european police office (europol) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european union fundamental rights agency (fra) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased that the eu agencies have made demonstrable progress in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the reports demonstrate that all but one of these agencies, the eit, can be granted immediate discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european gnss agency (gnss) is achieving good results in its area of work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the eu agency have made demonstrable progress made in implementing the "roadmap" following the ‘common approach’ agreed in 2012 and that the report demonstrates that the agency can be granted immediate discharge for 2013. i voted therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking is one of the 7 eu joint undertaking public-private-partnerships in the domain of new technology and research. given that significant progress has been made by artemis in improving the situation since 2013 with recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky joint undertaking deals specifically with developing breakthrough technologies to significantly increase the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport. given that significant progress has been made by clean sky in improving the situation since 2013 with recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ eniac deals specifically with nanotechnology. significant progress has been made by eniac in improving the situation since 2013 with recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented. i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking deals specifically with fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this joint undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking deals specifically with innovative medicines. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this join undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy brings together industry and research bodies in public private partnerships. iter deals specifically with fusion energy. i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this joint undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the ukip position, as on all of the votes on the discharge for 2013, was to vote against the granting of discharge. as a party opposed to the uk's membership of the european union, which has raised concerns over the spending of taxpayers' money, the party felt that to do anything other than vote against discharge would send out completely the wrong message to the constituents we were elected to represent. i therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this discharge. it is important that the european union is transparent and that my constituents in wales can be confident that scrutiny is effective and that resources are being used properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge, given that significant progress has been made by this sesar joint undertaking in improving the situation since 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to all joint undertakings given that significant progress and improvements have been made situation since 2013 in terms of recoveries reached, preventive measures taken and action plans implemented.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ despite reforms already proposed in this regulation to address a number of issues with money market funds, there remains a grave concern in relation to the stability of the money market fund industry and the risks it may pose for the broader financial system. moreover, economic research provides evidence that the conduct and nature of mmfs make them vulnerable to destabilising investor runs, which can spread quickly among funds, impairing liquidity and the availability of short- term credit, in particular for banks. the risk of an investor run may be higher for constant net asset value funds in cases where there is a perception that they would fail to live up to investor expectations of redemption at par. and it should also be noted that while mmfs did not cause the financial crisis of 2007 to 2008, their performance during the financial turmoil highlighted their potential to spread, or even amplify, a crisis. the experience from the 2007 to 2008 crisis has shown that mmfs may be susceptible to investor runs and may need the support of sponsor companies, in particular to maintain their constant net asset value. for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because:1. it calls upon the commission to take action, a point which does not fit well with the position of a ukip mep 2. it interferes with freedom of contract 3. it increases the regulatory burden 4. the attempts to address systemic risk may prove counterproductive: it may concentrate customer deposits into the hands of just a few banks, causing concentration risk 5. the sunset clause for cnavs
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on money market funds – which i authored – because i believe it is high time to protect taxpayers against having to bail out corporations if times get tough, and to push through measures to stabilise markets and boost economies across europe. in my constituency in the west midlands, i saw the detrimental effects of the 2008 economic crash and the burden that was put on local authorities and taxpayers – this legislation will help to reduce the risks of this happening again. hard-working people should not have to foot the bill for large corporations who expect governments to pick up the pieces when times get tough. it was moreover crucial for me to make sure money market funds were diversified and stabilised, given the importance these funds carry for all sorts of companies, from small charities to large multinationals.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on money market funds because i believe it is high time to protect taxpayers against having to bail out corporations if times get tough, and to push through measures to stabilise markets and boost economies across europe. it is crucial to make sure money market funds are diversified and stabilised, given the importance these funds carry for all sorts of companies, from small charities to large multinationals.
in writing. ‒ mmf play a crucial role in the short term financing of our economy. different types of the funds exist as investors preferences differ. however, for reasons of financial stability and protecting tax payers money, it is crucial that extra safeguards are adopted and that temporary, a new class of mmf is created, the lvnav mmf.
in writing. ‒ mmf play a crucial role in the short term financing of our economy. different types of the funds exist as investors preferences differ. however, for reasons of financial stability and protecting tax payers money, it is crucial that extra safeguards are adopted and that temporary, a new class of mmf is created, the lvnav mmf. labour meps voted in support of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, including the rapporteur's request to postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution. money market funds play a crucial role in the short term financing of our economy. different types of the funds exist as investors preferences differ. for reasons of financial stability and the protection of taxpayers' money, it is vital that extra safeguards are adopted.
in writing. ‒ with my s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because mmf play a crucial role in the short term financing of our economy. however, for reasons of financial stability and protecting tax payers money, it is crucial that extra safeguards are adopted.
in writing. ‒ this was a technical update; as such, i felt it proper to abstain as a ukip mep.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the walesa report given it aims to ensure that clear and user-friendly import rules are fully in line with legal provisions of the treaties for the import of textile products for the countries which do not fall under any other trading rules with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that ensures clear and user-friendly import rules are fully in line with legal provisions of the treaties for the import of textile products for the two countries which do not fall under any other trading rules with the eu
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. this technical report ensures clear and user-friendly import rules are fully in line with legal provisions of the treaties for the import of textile products for the 2 countries which do not fall under any other trading rules with the eu.
in writing. ‒ this technical report ensures clear and user-friendly import rules are fully in line with legal provisions of the treaties for the import of textile products for the 2 countries which do not fall under any other trading rules with the eu.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this technical report ensuring clear and user-friendly import rules are fully in line with legal provisions of the treaties for the import of textile products for the 2 countries which do not fall under any other trading rules with the eu.
in writing. ‒ this technical report ensures clear and user-friendly import rules are fully in line with legal provisions of the treaties for the import of textile products for the 2 countries which do not fall under any other trading rules with the eu. this will be beneficial, therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted not to increase meps' staffing allowancesand for greater transparency. i voted against the house of history vanity project, and for amendments to keep costs down. given that these votes were unsuccessful, naturally i felt i must vote against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against increasing the eu budget, for more efficient use of funds and to reduce spending on eu promotion. the eu budget is large enough already, there is far too much wastage and inefficient spending, there is no such thing as eu money, this is tax payers money.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted against the deprez report given it represents a budgetary increase.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against the report as it represents an eu budgetary increase.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against the report outlining a number of budget cuts and increases in the european parliament's operational budget for 2016. the overall increase is above inflation and stands at 1.6%.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on eu expenditure for the financial year 2016. the report represents an increase to the budget which i firmly oppose.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues, i voted against the resolution because it will increase meps staffing budget by €18,000 per year. this is a 7% increase, although there has not been an increase in this allowance since 2011.
mr president, i voted against this motion on this point, in contradiction with my group, and i want to explain my action. as minister of justice in the czech republic, i have been dealing with the subject of the european public prosecutor and i have to say that after a detailed study of all aspects, i am convinced that at this moment there is a proposal that will cost taxpayers a lot of money if a new office is created. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the right to decide on the basis of a report by the european parliament and the council. this proposal is incomplete, it does not address a number of issues, it does not address the issue of the national police collecting evidence for such a prosecutor, it does not address the issue of the national courts, and i am convinced that in the end it may slow down rather than help prosecution and proceedings.
i voted against the proposal for a european public prosecutor’s office. the fight against fraud concerning eu funding is one that i think most of us will support, particularly in the context of ongoing cuts to public spending and the importance to citizens of eu funding. however, there remains the question over whether the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office is consistent with the principle of subsidiarity, as is evident in the number of eu member states that support the yellow card procedure in regard to this. the european public prosecutor’s office would create an overarching eu criminal body. this could create a two-tier system, where european union law might prioritise criminal cases concerning eu interests to the detriment of domestic cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i have grave concerns in relation to the establishment of the european public prosecutors office and the parameters of its remit. harmonisation will inevitably mean the adoption of the european inquisitorial model to replace the trial by jury system which applies in ireland and a number of other common law jurisdictions. this has the potential to seriously undermine the presumption of innocence. basically, this means that an accused person would no longer be treated as innocent before being proven guilty, but that the onus will now be on anyone accused of a crime to prove his or her innocence. the rationale for the development of an eu criminal law is to combat transnational organised crime. the intention is of course to be welcomed but not at the expense of subjugating and undermining the existing judicial systems of individual member states to the interests of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in principle opposed to the creation of a pan-european public prosecutor. it is an unnecessary role, duplicating functions and therefore expenditure. furthermore, it could potentially be a stepping stone to eu criminal law. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i voted against this report as i have serious concerns about the infringement of national sovereignty that this represents. whilst i strongly support the fight against organised crime and fraud within the eu, i do not regard the creation of a european public prosecutor as the correct way to tackle this serious issue. the cost is not justified and it poses a threat to the liberties of british citizens.
in writing. ‒ although i support the principle behind the eppo, which would deal with preventing crimes against the financial interest of the union, tackling fraud of the eu budget and protecting tax payers' money, i abstained on the macovei report because i believe the eppo will not be able to successfully carry out this crucial tasks in the absence of unanimity in the council. moreover, the absence of council unanimity means an enhanced cooperation procedure would take place which is outside the ambit of the treaties. as a result, the european parliament would not have a say on the final text, only being able to give its consent. finally, i am concerned the absence of a plan to establish a clear modus vivendi between the eppo, eurojust and olaf would be counterproductive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that europe needs to be proactive in defending the eu’s and ultimately our citizens’ financial interest. the establishment of an independent and effective eppo will help to protect the eu's financial interests against fraud and corruption.
in writing. ‒ i support the idea of tackling eu fraud by pooling together the resources of member states in the areas of investigation and prosecution. it is important that member states work together in protecting the eu budget. the interim report raises some good points with regards to possible structures of the eppo such as the importance of ensuring complete transparency in the process of establishing an eppo as well as complete independence from national politics. the eppo has to be drafted in a way that there is no conflict between national constitutional rules and secondary eu law. the european parliament is not included in the co-decision meaning that the council are not obliged to take into account any recommendations made. i have chosen to abstain from the vote on the interim report as it is still unclear what the structure of the eppo will be and the impact such a structure could have on the uk criminal system.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support the scope of the eppo being used solely to prevent crimes against the financial interest of the union and to prevent forum shopping in the eu, however it is our position that any eppo would have to then be agreed by all member states for this to be successful. not all member states would participate in the case of "enhanced cooperation" and therefore such a proposal would not put an end to forum shopping.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the public prosecutor's office. i support such a mechanism that would deal with preventing crimes against the financial interest of the union, tackling fraud and protecting taxpayers' money.
mr president, i welcome what the commissioner has said, as well as the statement by the high representative. we need to see an end to the violence now because police violence, mass arrests and imprisoning opposition leaders and human rights defenders have no place in any election process, and we need the government to take action to stop it now. we as the eu should be ready to support burundi in a peaceful dialogue, to get a peaceful dialogue established there, to talk about the elections and to prepare for a peaceful electoral process in the run-up to those elections, because these elections are vital, as you have said, not just for burundi, but for the whole of the great lakes region, where we expect elections in the next 18 months. commissioner, you have also highlighted that the eu has increased its aid to burundi. as chair of the committee on development i want to see us support burundi. i want this country, one of the poorest on the planet, to continue to receive our assistance and to be able to develop the economy and services for local people, but we cannot do that without peace, we cannot do that without stability, and that is why we need the government to heed our calls today. we have already seen thousands of people crossing the borders into the drc and into rwanda. those people need our help as well, and i hope you will talk to commissioner stylianides about this and say that we should help the united nations there. finally, we ask the government of burundi not to put at risk the peace dividend built up over the last 15 to 20 years; it really must heed our calls, move to a peaceful election process and help the country recover and get back on its feet.
mr president, i am sure that all of us in this chamber today share a sense of outrage and sorrow at the recent murders of christian students at a kenyan university. the circumstances of this attack are particularly harrowing. this was no random violence. christian students were specifically separated and murdered. as a christian i am reminded of the words of the apostle paul in 2 timothy: ‘indeed all who desire to live a godly life in christ jesus will be persecuted’. perhaps in our western mindset it is easy to forget the terrible persecution suffered by christians around the world – on an almost daily basis, according to the charity open doors. this attack in kenya may have shaken us to the core, but it is not a one-off. in mandera, kenya, a bus was hijacked and 28 christians forced off and shot. in december, 36 christians were separated, captured, and beheaded. in january a catholic priest leading a church service was murdered; and perhaps the attack on the westgate shopping centre in nairobi is better known. our western world rightly howled with outrage at the murders at charlie hebdo. let us remember, when such attacks occur in africa they are every bit as tragic as those closer to home.
mr president, by targeting students, schools and education, as it did most recently at garissa university in kenya, or attacking unicef personnel, as it did last week in somalia, al-shabaab is literally putting a bomb under the future of the african continent. needless to say, we cannot let this happen. it is totally unacceptable. i offer my condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones and who have been robbed of their future. the ramifications of this terrorist organisation across several countries and its well-developed system of acquiring financing ties with other terrorist groups call for a smart, decisive and comprehensive response. i think this requires supporting and coordinating with the kenyan government, whose belated response to the recent massacre has been lacklustre. most critically, any strategy we adopt should resolve – rather than contribute to – the divisions this group is trying to sow. very importantly, i believe that, whenever one group is persecuted, society in its entirety suffers. let us not forget that, in kenya, counter-terrorism activities have marginalised and stigmatised muslim communities as well as christians. so my message to the commission, the high representative and the kenyan government is that we need a strategy that brings security for all, regardless of their background or religion.
madam president, terrorism must be condemned, whatever the ideology behind it, be it political or under the pretext of religion. al-shabaab, isis and al-qaeda clearly target all civilians, no matter what religion. singling out christians in kenya is a tactic aimed at stoking ethnic and religion tensions. the aim is to divide kenya’s religious and ethnic communities and to create conflict between muslims and non-muslims in the country. violent extremists and terrorists succeed when people start mistrusting each other because of social boundaries and stereotypes. we cannot allow this to happen. the fight against extremism is not about christians versus muslims or muslims versus jews. it is about all citizens versus extremists. we must stop these religious divisions and stand up together against terror and hatred. we must stand for respect and diversity. we must unite and promote our values of equality, freedom and democracy.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the looting and destruction of ancient religious and cultural sites in syria and iraq by isis and other extreme groups is simply despicable. just last month, da’esh demolished ancient cultural heritage sites in northern iraq, including statues in the mosul museum, the classical site of hatra and the assyrian capitals of nineveh, nimrud and khorsabad. in my capacity as iraq delegation chairman, i call on the iraqi and syrian authorities to improve their legal and administrative frameworks in order to prevent the illicit trafficking of stolen artefacts, as has been mentioned here, and cut off funds for terrorism. international partners also need to redouble their efforts to assist in documenting the historical treasures of this ancient civilisation. it is imperative that a clear record of these artefacts be preserved. finally, the major damage already inflicted on iraqi and assyrian sites is one of the worst cultural heritage disasters of all time, according to a yale professor. with this in mind, the perpetuators of this vandalism must be stopped now.
madam president, i would like to thank silvia costa and fellow members of the committee on culture and education for raising this important issue. just as the heinous and horrific crimes isis commits against ordinary civilians are not only a matter for iraqis and syrians but are a matter for humanity at large, so is the destruction of these ancient cultural sites a matter of common human heritage and identity. the fertile crescent of mesopotamia is one of the birthplaces of human civilisation, and the sharing of culture with others is a natural human mechanism for creating openness and understanding between diverse groups of people. it is that common humanity, that co-existence and understanding, which isis seeks to destroy. it is right that the international community moves to act against these crimes. what happened in syria and iraq must also teach us a lesson on how we must use cultural heritage here in europe, not as an exclusive and divisive tool, but as an educational instrument to deal with societal issues and contemporary challenges, to foster intercultural dialogue in order to bring people of europe closer together.
madam president, nothing is more important than human life. the destruction of cultural heritage pales in comparison to other atrocities that isis has committed. it is, nevertheless, cultural cleansing and a war crime. cultural heritage is a record of our common past and a way of understanding each other. its destruction represents an attack on our shared civilisation. it should therefore be treated as such, even if it is not equal to the human toll that isis has exacted. it is further proof that isis has nothing to do with religion. attacking schools, media and other places of culture – all symbols that represent freedom of thought and respect for cultural diversity – is part of a strategy to crush free thinking. we must all condemn these actions as war crimes, challenge isis’ narrative and work together to preserve our cultural heritage. we must cooperate against illegal trade in cultural property from the occupied territories that directly funds terrorism. we must stand united in respect for humanity.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, as vice-president of this parliament’s delegation for relations with south asia, it is with deep regret that i have had to co-author this resolution about islands known for their incredible beauty, with strong links to my own country; islands that are at the forefront of the fight against climate change. but where we cannot remain silent is where there are breaches of human rights. we did not seek either to support or oppose the former president from outside, simply by objecting – as we would for any defendant – to reports that he is being mistreated in custody, denied medical treatment and refused a defence lawyer in due time for the start of the case against him. it is not to support his candidacy at future elections if we defend his, or anyone’s right, to stand in such elections or when we observe what appear to be incredible charges of terrorism against him, which themselves appear to be intended to prevent him from contesting the elections. as amnesty international has observed, this is happening in the context of a rising general concern about restrictions against protests, media and civil society within the country, and the free reign of vigilante groups allegedly unfettered by the police. when the human rights commission is charged with treason, simply for undertaking its role in accordance with un human rights council, no members of the un itself should remain silent for us in europe and for my country as a member of the commonwealth. in the maldives, known for their tourism, it is ironic that it is the tourism minister himself who openly admits he is at the centre of accusations about corruption, violence and the murder of a journalist. in this resolution we call for european tourist advice to be explicitly used to apply pressure for change. the malidves may be small dots in a large ocean but we will not stand by when it is democracy and respect for human rights which are disappearing beneath the waves.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, in a country better known for tourism rather than militancy, sadly human rights and democracy in the maldives are deteriorating at an alarming rate with rising wahhabi-salafism as an influence and political tensions. peaceful protestors are being arrested and critical media outlets in civil society are being silenced, whilst the judicial system is being manipulated to imprison opposition politicians. the recent arrest and conviction of the former president mohamed nasheed, the first democratically elected president of the maldives, who did so much in the past to raise the plight of inundation his country faces from climate change, is just one example of selective justice and corruption in a politicised judiciary. it has been reported that his trial clearly failed to meet national and international standards of justice. my group, the ecr, calls on the government of the maldives to immediately and unconditionally release former president nasheed and to take the necessary steps to reform the judiciary in order to restore confidence in the rule of law. the introduction of delayed death sentences, now under sharia law, on minors is of the gravest concern. the significant rise in the number of maldivians joining isis has also created a rise in jihadi radicalisation within that small country’s society. this resolution calls for warnings to be given to eu tourists visiting the indian ocean tourist destination. i do hope, as a commonwealth country, the maldives can soon be brought back from the brink.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am speaking for my group but i am also chair of the delegation for relations with south asia which includes the maldives, a country we visited on a number of occasions, post-tsunami and indeed when the new constitution, a process we supported, was under discussion. we have heard it is a young democracy in the maldives and we have seen some welcome progress. but we are also seeing a number of tensions as these institutions find their places in the new set-up. we recognise the role that former president nasheed has played in these changes. but the european union also expressed its concern when, as president, he ordered the arrest of a judge, which has had on-going repercussions, not least at present. the recent events are deeply disturbing. we are seeing the juxtaposition of these new charges under the terrorism act. new charges should have time for a new defence; it is a constitutional guarantee in the maldives. we saw changes too in the law regarding holding public office post-conviction, and changes in legal procedures, not least the time to prepare an appeal. i think many of us find it very difficult to believe that this juxtaposition was purely a simple coincidence. the european parliament wants the constitutional guarantees of the maldives upheld for all its citizens, all its residents. it is essential for progress in this small island state threatened by climate change.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, albania has had a difficult past in recent years but it has recently tried to become a modern, democratic state, as evidenced by membership of nato and achieving eu candidate status. the main priority, as for its western balkan neighbours, remains judicial and administrative reform, as well as cracking down on organised crime and jihadi terrorism, fighting corruption and human trafficking and improving victim protection. the need for a more inclusive government and parliamentary democratic maturity is also essential. the issue of minority rights is important, particularly for the roma population, the rights of women, children, the disabled and the lgbt community. the appointment of an ombudsman has also been very helpful recently. recent alarming accusations of criminal behaviour in the political class need to be fully investigated and, if found to be true, those guilty brought to justice. reports of youth radicalisation and the numbers joining isis are also of grave concern, but i particularly welcome albania’s alignment with the cfsp sanctions against russia. i feel confident of course that, with eu help, albania can continue to make progress on all these fronts and eventually realise its european aspirations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, according to the 2014 progress report on albania, continued reform to aspects of the social, political and judicial situation is needed. it is vitally important that albanian sovereignty is respected but, equally, we must promote respect for universal principles such as fundamental rights, which have been mentioned here today. it is encouraging to see that progressive steps have been taken by the albanian government in the area of fundamental rights. i particularly welcome improvements in legal recognition for lgbti persons and the setting up of a working group on lgbti rights in the ministry of social affairs. there is, of course, more to be done to ensure equality for the lgbti community in albania. however, judging by recent homophobic comments from unionist politicians in ireland, there is also much to be done in eu member states.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, whilst albania might well wish to become an eu member and is ticking the boxes to do so, that objective realisation comes with major concerns and anxieties still. acknowledged across european security services is albania’s role in people trafficking, heroin smuggling and passport theft. these are all criminal activities that represent clear threats to social cohesion and personal security for citizens of all member states, not least the united kingdom. the fundamental eu tenet of freedom of movement of people will provide the ideal platform for these criminal and anti-social activities to be expanded across europe. as a uk mep, one has to ask about – and seriously challenge – the justification for progressing albania’s accession and integration without any of these critical issues being resolved. turning a blind eye is not an option. a clear message should be: not yet the time, no accession or integration progression yet, resolve the problems as a priority, and then return with a metaphorical clean bill of health as a state and potential member. we owe that to every eu citizen. allowing entrenched criminal activities to expand across the european continent and the british isles should not be facilitated in this way.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the new eu approach towards bosnia and herzegovina is a fresh hope for the country. the s&d group very much welcomes the long-awaited entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement set up for 1 june 2015. we urge the new leaders to refrain from divisive, nationalistic and secessionist rhetoric that polarises society. we urge them instead to commit fully to carrying out the necessary reforms in order to improve the lives of all citizens and move forward in the eu integration process. that addressing the socio-economic needs of the people of bosnia must be the priority became manifest in the social protest of last year. economic prosperity is, however, only possible if it is based on a democratic and inclusive society. the fight against the corruption that exploits the most vulnerable people is another must as it affects all sectors, even health and education. there is pressure to change bosnia coming from all sides, not only from the eu but more importantly from the citizens themselves. transparency in the process of planning and implementing reforms is crucial and civil society must be included in the reform processes. the media, civil society and the judiciary should together provide robust scrutiny of the government of the day. the s&d group remains fully commited to bosnia and herzegovina being part of the eu.
madam president, bosnia and herzegovina is now the sole western balkans country without eu candidate status and this is indicative of the lack of reform progress and why there has been a united kingdom-led renewed approach towards this fragile country. all this is marred by the partial failure of the dayton agreement, more than a decade on, the lack of national political vision by its component ethnic peoples and republics, and russia, regrettably, also seems now to be very intent on supporting republika srpska’s secessionist tendencies. like its western balkan neighbours, there is urgent need for legal, judicial and administrative reform, as well as specific efforts to implement sedjic finci to afford equal rights to all bosnia’s citizens, to crack down on organised crime, jihadi terrorism – i send my condolences to the family of the policeman murdered in zvornik a few days ago – and against corruption and human trafficking. the issue of press freedom and minority rights is also important, particularly for the roma population, as well as the need to fully respect the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) judgments. unemployment is unacceptably high and the economy in a poor state. bosnia and herzegovina’s instability remains a serious challenge to the region and also to the european union.
madam president, bosnia and herzegovina’s accession is a delicate matter that requires a nuanced approach, but frustration over lack of progress should not come as a real surprise. simply put, the eu’s top-down efforts at imposing reform have not worked. boxing out the ruling elites has maintained the status quo on many levels, only succeeding in further isolating the bosnian people. they are the ones who need reform for their country to grow and prosper. however, they are in a predicament, as they have limited options available to them in order to achieve change via the polling booth. fortunately, efforts to breathe new life into the process, championed by my country, the united kingdom, have proven successful. recent progress on the stabilisation and association agreement, and bottom-up reform as featured in the compact for growth and jobs, are part of a more flexible, holistic approach that should help bosnia and herzegovina move forward.
author.– mr president, tonight’s debate is extremely important and extremely timely. it is important because sticking to our commitment of 0.7% of international aid is central to remaining credible on the global stage as we prepare for a series of major international summits on development in the coming months. it is timely because we know that the 0.7% issue is central to the debate at the council meeting which will take place on 26 may. it is no secret that, in recent years, several member states have struggled to reach their target. i remind colleagues that the target is 0.7% for the old member states – if you can still call them old, the 15 – and 0.33% for the ten new member states. but, despite the economic downturn, four member states have reached the target – the united kingdom, sweden, luxembourg and denmark – and another 11 member states have increased, or maintained, their official development assistance (oda) levels, and that includes croatia, finland and germany. so it is not all bad news on reaching the target. we now need to build on progress to date and to get the member states to recommit to 0.7%. we are not asking the council to make new commitments, but to stick with what has already been agreed – a target first mooted in the 1970s. the committee on development has adopted a report asking for the council to do this and asking for a sub-target of at least 0.2% of aid to go to least developed countries to ensure that our aid stays firmly focused on poverty reduction. i would like to hear from the commission how it sees the debate on 0.7% and what importance it attaches to that figure, and from the council on the progress it is making in discussions between the member states as they prepare for the council. so why is the 0.7% so important? not because i see aid as the only source of financing for development – not at all – but, when we go to the international conferences for financing for development, like the one in addis ababa in july, we need to start talking about releasing a whole new raft of funding sources – domestic resources, including better tax collection, and private sector finance. but if the eu goes to addis without recommitting on 0.7%, i am afraid that it will be seen by our partners in developing countries as backtracking and bad faith. so, instead of talking about those new sources of finance, instead of our commitment on oda acting as a catalyst to get other finance on the table, we will end up only talking about oda and not talking about the private sector or domestic resources. the addis working document, the so-called zero draft, makes it clear that the 0.7% target is an expected and core element of a successful conference. the language is extremely clear. the latvian presidency has done a great job on development so far. back in january, in riga, we launched the european year for development 2015. at the time, i said that we wanted a year not just of warm words, but a year of action. on finance, we now need action and money to match. success in addis ababa will pave the way for success in new york in september on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and, crucially, because the processes are linked, for success in the climate talks in paris in december. so the meeting of the council on 26 may is crucial. i hope the commission and council will work with parliament in the coming weeks to prepare for the council, to prepare for addis, and to lay the foundations for ambitious agreements in addis, new york and paris that can form a true, global partnership for sustainable development from 2015 to 2030.
mr president, from what i have heard this evening, i am concerned that we are not recognising the huge difference between humanitarian assistance in areas of disasters and true development aid. development aid is notoriously prone to corruption and misuse. arbitrary eu targets, minus any accountability or audit measures, will only worsen such abuse potential. the model for development aid has changed massively over the last decade and a half – change initiated not least by china, with numerous examples on record in africa and south america. the days of conditional development for eu economic, social and environmental objectives are well and truly over. we need to recognise that, accept that change and adapt accordingly. whether 0.7% or 0.2%, i am not fussed about the target, because any target is absolutely meaningless if it not effective, productive, accountable – and i emphasise accountable – and non—conditional. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i accept your challenge, but if you look at what happened to the united kingdom over the last few weeks, there was a race to meet an arbitrary target and no accountability. that is endemic and indicative of exactly what is happening across lots of member states in the european union. so i remain very concerned that the accountability is just not there, and nor is the transparency.
mr president, i would like to thank linda mcavan for placing this debate on the agenda. i think it was a colleague from across the house who asked my colleague here about where this 0.7% came from. well, it is actually from the willy brandt book ‘north-south: a programme for survival’, which i would suggest he reads, where in 1980 willy brandt said that 0.7% of gnp of developed countries should go to international aid by 1985. in 2005 – 20 years on – member states signed up to a 0.7% gni target and, for new member states, a 0.33% target. ten years on, we are here tonight where we have an opportunity to fulfil our commitments with these international conferences in addis ababa, new york and paris. so, 30 years since willy brandt spoke about 0.7% being reached by 1985, in this european year of development, we have this opportunity to fulfil willy brandt’s vision, and we should take that as we can and fulfil that vision.
blue-card question. – sir, have you read willy brandt’s book ‘north-south: a programme for survival’?
mr president, i would like to thank mr svoboda for putting this on the agenda. almost two years on since its adoption, the treaty of marrakesh is still to be ratified by the eu, and the worrying thing is that we are still deliberating on something that seems to be crystal clear. accessibility to culture is underpinned by the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, yet fewer than 5% of the books published in europe are available in a format which is accessible for blind and partially-sighted readers, such as audio or braille. in poorer countries, only some 1% of books published are available for visually-impaired persons. this enormous lack of accessible mother-tongue and foreign-language literature deprives blind and partially-sighted people of their right to education, information and social participation. the few books that are available cannot be shared across borders in europe and the rest of the world until the treaty is ratified, and due to the different copyright laws across the eu this has not yet happened. from what i understand, there are two reasons for the standstill: the appropriate legal basis for the decision and the question of whose competence it will be. i urge the council and the commission to find a way to endorse the treaty as soon as possible. making this a specific competence of the eu will speed up the process of ratification, and i urge the council and the commission to consider this route. i also ask the council to deliver a set timetable to ensure the speedy ratification of the treaty.
madam president, may i respond directly to mr rosati. the bank is of course required to employ its funds as rationally as possible in the interest of the european union. it is in all of our interests, for example, that the fiscal capacity of member states is preserved, and that the eu’s aid policy is not undermined by tax leaking away from developing countries. it is that point which motivates many of the requests that have been made of the bank. the bank did, in 2009, become a pioneer when it adopted a policy against non-cooperative jurisdictions, but as we all know, that policy has lost many of its teeth as those jurisdictions have creatively complied with the letter of oecd requirements, rather than complying with their spirit. so the time really has come for the bank to adopt an up-to-date responsible taxation policy and that would involve three measures during the exercise of the bank’s due diligence, particularly for intermediaries which, as my colleague hugues bayet said, are a particular problem. firstly, we need the bank to make use of the measures contained within the anti-money-laundering directive and particularly to access the new registers of beneficial ownership of companies. secondly, it must require its partners and clients to publish their accounts in detail, the so-called country-by-country reporting, and finally, rather than using restricted information from the global forum on transparency, it must use the broader range of criteria to assess tax compliance and openness such as that contained within the financial secrecy index.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i have always been of the view that we should never leave the next generation in a position worse off than the one in which we ourselves now live. the challenge of feeding the world’s rapidly growing population is one of the biggest threats to the same. statistics show that there will be a 60 % increase in the demand for food by 2050 as the population expands. how are we going to meet this increased demand, and how are we going to use the resources we have more efficiently? expo milano promises to provide a forum where we can begin to tackle these key issues and this is of course welcome, but i would caution against raising expectations that cannot possibly be met. the resolution itself takes a very broad and ambitious approach to what is achievable at the expo, urging the commission to make commitments on development aid, climate change, healthy soil and land-grabbing. nevertheless, while i support the general direction of the resolution, i would have preferred a more focused, streamlined approach that gives a clear and unambiguous message and i congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
madam president, we are discussing feeding the planet and providing energy for life. the present cap is an object lesson on how to fail to achieve this. the attitude towards the use of the obvious advantages of biotechnology in agriculture is a case in point. the chief scientific advisor to the commission can find nothing wrong with gm crops, so the commission abolishes the post of chief scientific advisor. the green lobby forced the banning of neonicotinoid seed dressings without the benefit of british field trials, and with the result that oilseed rape crops fail or need the life support of repetitive cypermethrin spraying. the eu green lobby are forcing thousands of acres out of food production in favour of expensive energy from solar farms and ad plants, while being utterly opposed to the cheap shale gas that sits underneath those same fields. furthermore, british farmers are being forced to abandon optimum rotations in favour of the 3-crop rule, and, at the same time, they are told to reduce omissions of co2 – the very gas that makes their crops grow in the first place.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report on the eu alcohol strategy. it is vitally important that member states take the necessary steps to tackle the causes and effect of alcohol consumption and addiction. unfortunately in ireland there are many families affected, directly or indirectly, by alcohol addiction. as my colleague has said, education campaigns and the availability of information play a key role in addressing this problem. however, self-regulation has failed. such campaigns are particularly important in informing young people of the implications of alcohol consumption for their health and well-being. indeed, we see a number of products, such as alcopops, that are marketed towards young people. from my work on the tobacco products directive, i am very aware of the effects the labelling of tobacco products can have, so it is encouraging to see a reference to the nutritional labelling regulation in this strategy.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency, my constituents have a right to know that i voted against this resolution. the united kingdom should be perfectly capable of drafting our own legislation on alcohol.
in writing. ‒ the eu should not be involved in deciding the alcohol strategy of nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the willmott report because i believe consumers have a right to know. alcohol is the third-biggest cause of preventable death and disease in europe and is a risk factor for over 60 chronic diseases, including cancer, heart disease, diabetes and liver disease, and is also linked to obesity. europe has the highest rate of alcohol consumption in the world, yet the previous eu strategy on addressing alcohol-related harm ended in 2012 and has not been renewed. clear and honest labelling, which is supported by many brewers in europe, will now allow people to access the information they need so they are able to make an informed choice when they consume alcohol. tackling alcohol-related harm should be a priority, and i hope the commission will take this as a cue to finally come forward with a new strategy to make headway on this crucial issue.
in writing. ‒ health is a member state competency and british conservatives believe that the commission’s new alcohol strategy should not compel member states to take legislative action. excess alcohol harms millions of individuals and families whilst having a significant cost to our health systems. the conservatives are therefore keen to support a proactive alcohol strategy that respects the competences of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i want to call for action to reduce alcohol-related harm, and for the clear, honest labelling of alcoholic drinks in order to allow people to make informed decisions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution, as it calls for the commission to produce a new eu alcohol strategy and to take greater steps to ensure that people are fully aware of the dangers of drink-driving and drinking when pregnant. europe is still the heaviest drinking region in the world, with alcohol the third biggest cause of preventable death and disease, and alcohol-related harm costing the eu economy eur 155.8 billion a year. parliament has made it clear that we want the commission to make tackling alcohol-related harm a priority. we have sent a strong message to the commission and i hope they will listen and finally come forward with a new strategy to set out how this will be done.
in writing. ‒ labour meps call for action to reduce alcohol-related harm and for clear, honest labelling of alcoholic drinks to allow people to make informed decisions.
in writing. ‒ europe is the heaviest-drinking region in the world. the social costs of alcohol-related harm are estimated at eur 155.8 billion a year, and alcohol is third biggest cause of preventable death and disease in europe. alcohol is currently exempt from eu requirements to provide nutritional and ingredient information under the food information regulation. we support this resolution calling for the commission to come forward with a new alcohol strategy and to publish the delayed report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on mandatory calorie labelling for alcohol products in the eu. clear and honest alcohol labelling will allow citizens to make informed decisions about their consumption, and will be crucial in reducing alcohol-related harm across the member states.
madam president, two years ago the collapse of the rana plaza garment factory tragically revealed the real price of unbridled globalisation in showing consumers across europe that cheap clothes too often come with cheap labour rights and little safety at work. the companies named in this resolution should cough up the compensation they owe. this week workers around the world marked international workers’ memorial day, when we remember those killed or injured at work or victims of occupational diseases, and we commit to make working conditions better throughout the world. in bangladesh much needs to be done. the latest international labour organisation (ilo) report demonstrates that basic legal changes are needed and workers are still subject to violence and intimidation for trade union activities. this is why i supported and co-signed the resolution.
madam president, progress in investigating the rana plaza building collapse, ensuring satisfactory levels of health and safety in the workplace, and the bangladesh government’s reluctance to pave the way for trade union formation to represent workers’ rights, remains very disappointing. more importantly, democracy is declining fast in bangladesh. elections at both national and local level are held without the opportunity for the people to fully participate in a free and fair process. the european union cannot expect to achieve fundamental rights for workers in an environment where political governance has completely broken down and human rights are curbed on a widespread basis. it is most important that we address the issue of a free and fair, inclusive national election. the lack of free elections is the root cause of the political turmoil in bangladesh. without sound political governance in bangladesh, securing workers’ rights and safer workplaces will be difficult.
in writing. ‒ i felt it consistent with my principles to abstain: the motion has much to commend it, but it appears to have wider ramifications which would not be in accord with the principles expected of a ukip mep.
neena gill (s&d), in writing. ‒ notwithstanding the fact that some improvements have been made since the rana plaza disaster two years ago, we still have a long way to go in securing decent working conditions for the four million workers of the textile industry in bangladesh. that is why i supported this resolution, and more particularly the call on the bangladeshi government to fully reform the labour act and ensure safe buildings and robust health and safety legislation, which can support vital jobs in the garments industry. furthermore, the government needs to ensure that workers can make use of their right to form trade unions. it is unacceptable that members of trade unions continue to suffer discrimination and dismissal to this very day. it is also high time international brands start taking responsibility and pay the outstanding 8.5 million usd in compensation they still owe to the survivors and the relatives of the victims. last but not least, rana plaza made clear that access to information in the garment sector remains the most important obstacle to tackling human rights violations in the global supply chain. that is why it is crucial that a legal obligation of due diligence is imposed on eu companies outsourcing production to third countries.
in writing. ‒ the day before rana plaza collapsed, workers did not have a collective voice to enable them to refuse to enter an unsafe workplace, and they were confronted by factory management with the choice of losing their jobs. this was not just a bangladeshi tragedy but an international one, with 29 international brands sourcing garments from the factories housed in the faulty building. it is a disgrace that those injured and the families of the victims still await rightful compensation while brands continue to generate large profits. payments must be made. sadly, it took a manmade disaster to begin long overdue efforts to ensure better working conditions in the sector. thorough reform of the bangladesh labour act is therefore needed. we have a moral obligation to ensure a more comprehensive and effective multilateral approach to make basic labour standards and minimum working conditions a priority. the eu needs to use its influence for this change. we owe this to the more than 1 100 workers who lost their lives on 24 april 2013 and to future generations. i echo my colleagues in hoping that the commission will push for the compensation to be paid, for the prevention of future tragedies and for the strengthening of trade unions.
in writing. ‒ progress on investigating the rana plaza building collapse and on ensuring satisfactory levels of health and safety at work remains disappointing, as does the bangladesh government’s reluctance to pave the way for trade union formation. democracy is declining fast in bangladesh: elections at all levels are held without full participation in a free and fair process. the eu cannot expect to achieve fundamental workers’ rights in an environment where political governance has broken down, widespread human rights violations prevail, and media freedom and democratic rights are curbed. there is a serious democratic deficit in bangladesh. for example, in the city elections in dhaka and chittagong, on 28 april 2015, media reports alleged that awami league activists attacked opposition leader khaleda zia’s vehicle, and serious allegations have been made that these elections were rigged in favour of government-supported candidates. attacks on the swedish ambassador to dhaka as he was observing the elections are also a matter of concern. therefore, it is now important to address the issue of a free, fair and inclusive national election. the lack of free elections is the root cause of the political turmoil in bangladesh. without sound political governance in bangladesh, securing workers’ rights and safer workplaces will be difficult.
in writing. ‒ we voted in support of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and progress of the bangladesh sustainability compact. we remember the victims on the occasion of the 2nd anniversary of the rana plaza tragedy, one of the most devastating industrial disasters ever. meps have expressed their condolences once again to the bereaved families and to those injured or disabled. these losses could be avoided with better safety-at-work systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse. i strongly support the eu in its efforts to promote human rights and labour standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because access to information in the garment sector is often the most important obstacle to tackling human rights violations in the global supply chain. also, a mandatory information system is needed that provides information linking all the actors in the value chain of a single product, from the place of production to the retailers.
in writing. ‒ i oppose a common asylum policy for the european union, and therefore voted against this resolution. in particular i voted against binding eu quotas on migration.
in writing. ‒ twenty-two thousand lives have been lost in the mediterranean since 2000. lives that could have been saved if europe’s leaders did not choose to bury their heads in the ground rather than provide an adequate response. the uk government played a leading role in scaling back search-and-rescue operations at eu level, arguing that saving migrants would serve as a pull-factor for migration. i say saving lives is not an issue of encouraging or discouraging migration. it is a moral duty. boat arrivals, moreover, are a result of the complex humanitarian crisis in our neighbourhood. that is why a comprehensive response is required. measures put forward by the council last week are not enough. tackling human trafficking is important, but we cannot ignore the first priority, saving those at sea, nor the need to tackle deeper root causes. we need a major expansion of the search-and-rescue operations and a clear commitment from the uk and other governments to resettle a meaningful number of refugees. third, we need to connect the dots between our actions in the fields of foreign and security policy, trade and development to tackle the root causes forcing people to flee their homes in search for a better life.
in writing. ‒ meps have expressed their deep regret and sorrow at the recurring tragic loss of lives in the mediterranean. the european union and the member states should build on existing cooperation and do everything possible to prevent further loss of life at sea. the eu and the member states should provide the necessary resources to ensure that search and rescue obligations are effectively fulfilled and therefore properly funded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution concerning the european council report on eu migration and asylum policies. it is vital that the eu acts to tackle the appalling tragedies which are ongoing in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the rapid and full transposition and effective implementation of the common european asylum system by all participating member states, thereby ensuring common european standards under existing legislation.
in writing. ‒ we welcome these proposed reforms to the hyperlink "http://ec.europa.eu/enlargement/policy/glossary/terms/saa_en.htm" stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreement in the western balkans region. the extension of autonomous trade measures (atms) will continue to offer economic and political support to the western balkan countries, while including a key human rights clause, of which labour rights conditionality forms part, attached to the trade measures. the s&d group has been at the forefront in demanding this. we also support proposals to allow parliament a greater role in scrutiny of the western balkan countries’ compliance with the human rights clause, and in atm suspension if necessary. it is hoped that bosnia and herzegovina will be able to acknowledge the accession of croatia to the eu, so as to avoid atm suspension, and we urge the commission to maintain dialogue on this issue. in the long term, however, we cannot support any third country discriminating against eu member states, and the ability to use the suspension clause is necessary.
in writing. ‒ we welcome these proposed reforms to the hyperlink "http://ec.europa.eu/enlargement/policy/glossary/terms/saa_en.htm" stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreement in the western balkans region. the extension of autonomous trade measures (atms) will continue to offer economic and political support to the western balkan countries, while including a key human rights clause, of which labour rights conditionality forms part, attached to the trade measures. the s&d group has been at the forefront in demanding this. we also support proposals to allow parliament a greater role in scrutiny of the western balkan countries’ compliance with the human rights clause, and in atm suspension if necessary.
in writing. ‒ in order to allow time to deliberate further and to table the best possible report, i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the suspension of exceptional trade measures with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. i welcome these proposed reforms to the hyperlink "http://ec.europa.eu/enlargement/policy/glossary/terms/saa_en.htm" stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreement in the western balkans region. the extension of autonomous trade measures (atms) will continue to offer economic and political support to the western balkan countries, while including a key human rights clause, of which labour rights conditionality forms part, attached to the trade measures. i also support proposals to allow parliament a greater role in scrutiny of the western balkan countries’ compliance with the human rights clause, and in atm suspension if necessary. in the long term, however, i cannot support any third country discriminating against eu member states, and the ability to use the suspension clause is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the persecution of christians around the world. there is no doubt that some christian communities suffer persecution in different parts of the world – and this must be recognised and condemned. however, persecution of all and any religious minorities anywhere in the world must be condemned as unacceptable. unfortunately many of the amendments submitted concerned the persecution of christian minorities only. while i supported amendments that were factually accurate, it would have been preferable had the amendments concerned the persecution of all religious minorities, all around the world, rather than just christians, particularly those in the middle east. because of the large number of authoritarian regimes in the middle east and the ongoing conflicts, the rights of many religious minorities, not only christians, are poorly protected. indeed, many different religious, ethnic, cultural and linguistic minorities, as well as the lgbt community and refugees, are all extremely vulnerable to violence and oppression. sinn féin fully supports the right of all people to freedom of religion and belief, and takes the view that all minorities and vulnerable people need to be strongly protected in law.
in writing. ‒ i utterly deplore these killings. the wording was a concern in some areas but, given that most of the amendments had passed, i felt sufficiently comfortable to vote in favour of the overall text.
in writing. ‒ i condemn in the strongest terms the deliberate terrorist attack perpetrated by al-shabaab in garissa. terrorism must be condemned whatever the ideology behind it – be it political or under the pretext of religion. al-shabaab, isis and al-qaida clearly target all civilians, no matter what religion. singling out christians in kenya is a tactic aimed at stoking ethnic and religious tensions. the aim is to divide kenyan religious and ethnic communities and to create conflict between the muslims and the non-muslims in the country. violent extremists and terrorists succeed when people start mistrusting each other because of social boundaries and stereotypes. we cannot allow this to happen. the fight against extremism is not about christians versus muslims, or muslims versus jews: it is about all citizens versus extremists. we must stop these religious divisions and we must stand together against terror and hatred. we must stand for respect and diversity. we must unite and promote our values of equality, freedom, and democracy.
in writing. ‒ today we welcomed the joint motion for a resolution on the killing of students in kenya by the terror group al-shabaab. we condemn in the strongest terms the deliberate terrorist attack perpetrated by al-shabaab on 2 april 2015 in garissa, in which it assassinated 147 young, innocent university students and injured 79 others. members of the european parliament call for a thorough, prompt, impartial and effective investigation to be carried out in order to identify those responsible and bring the perpetrators, organisers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the destruction of cultural sites perpetrated by isis/da’esh. the intentional destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by isis in syria and iraq is deplorable and i welcome the condemnation of this in the joint motion. the joint motion points out that the destruction of cultural sites is used as a weapon of war and that this crime needs to be tackled. such intentional destruction of cultural sites is unjustifiable whether carried out by isis or other non-state or state actors. i welcome calls to extend the international law category of ‘crimes against humanity’ so that it encompasses acts which wilfully damage or destroy the cultural heritage of mankind on a large scale.
in writing. ‒ whilst agreeing with the sentiment of the motion, i do not agree with the calls for more eu money and therefore abstained on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ nothing is more important than human life. the destruction of cultural heritage pales in comparison to other atrocities that isis has committed. it is, nevertheless, cultural cleansing and a war crime. cultural heritage is a record of our common past and a way of understanding each other. its destruction represents an attack on our shared civilization. it should therefore be treated as such, even if it is not equal to the human toll that isis has inflicted. it is further proof that isis has nothing to do with religion. attacking schools, media and other places of culture – all symbols of freedom of thought and respect for cultural diversity – is part of a strategy to crush free thinking. we must all condemn these acts as war crimes, challenging isis’ narrative and working together to preserve our cultural heritage. we must cooperate against illegal trade in cultural property from the occupied territories, which directly funds terrorism. we must stand united in respect for humanity.
in writing. ‒ we strongly condemn the intentional destruction by isis of cultural, archaeological and religious sites in syria and iraq. we have called on the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate action at political level, in accordance with un security council resolution 2199 of 12 february 2015, in order to put an end to the illegal trade in cultural property from the territories of syria and iraq during periods of conflict in those territories, thereby preventing the use of such property as a source of financing.
in writing. ‒ just as the heinous and horrific crimes isis commits against ordinary civilians are a matter not only for iraqis and syrians but for humanity at large, so the destruction of these ancient cultural sites is a matter of common human heritage and identity. i voted in favour of the resolution as i think it is right that the international community should move to address these crimes. the resolution calls particularly for efforts to track and document that which has been lost, and for support for the brave syrian and iraqi archaeologists who are attempting to document artefacts that have been destroyed, and to prevent looting, at risk to their own lives. the concern for common historic cultural artefacts goes hand in hand with the eu’s moral obligation to support the victims of isis’ crimes against humanity, and to come up a moral and humane response to those thousands of refugees fleeing these wars, crossing seas and risking their lives to seek safety. that very same common humanity embodied by our common cultural heritage mandates us to provide a compassionate response to their plight.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy, transparency and accountability, i would like to place on the record that i abstained on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ we are concerned about increasing tendencies towards authoritarian rule in the maldives, the crackdown on political opponents and intimidation of the media and civil society, which could jeopardise the gains made in recent years in establishing human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the country. there must be an immediate end to all forms of violence, including violence against peaceful protesters, and the security forces should be reminded of their duty to protect peaceful demonstrators against violent gangs.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy, transparency and accountability i would like to confirm that i voted against this report. the reason for this is that i do not support eu expansion.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support albania’s european integration process, i welcome the good progress achieved so far and i would encourage further efforts and tangible results. the opening of accession negotiations with albania will constitute a major incentive for the country to step up the pace. ensuring political consensus and developing a genuine democratic dialogue are elements of the utmost importance. albania plays an important role in the western balkans region. we recognise its constructive and pro-active stance on regional security and stability and cooperation with neighbouring states, and we discourage statements that can send wrong signals. the future of albania and of all the other countries of the western balkans is in the eu.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support the european integration process of albania. whilst we welcome the good progress achieved so far we also encourage further efforts and believe that the opening of accession negotiations can provide the incentive to produce tangible results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on albania, which sends a strong, clear message in favour of albania’s aspirations for greater european integration. albania’s eu membership ambition has the capacity to contribute to the democracy and stability of the country and the region as a whole. constructive political dialogue now needs to take place, alongside cooperation from all sides, in order to bring about the reforms that are needed.
in writing. ‒ as the report recognises the progress achieved so far and expresses parliament’s continuing support for albania’s eu integration proces, i voted in favour of this resolution. i welcome the positive progress achieved, but i would also encourage further efforts. the opening of accession negotiations can provide the incentive to produce tangible results in albania.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of democracy, transparency and accountability, i would like to confirm that i voted against this report on the grounds that i do not believe in eu expansion.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the long awaited entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement, scheduled for 1 june this year. i urge the new leaders to refrain from divisive nationalistic and secessionist rhetoric that polarises society and to commit fully to carrying out the reforms necessary to improve the lives of all citizens and move forward in the eu integration process. addressing the socioeconomic needs of the people of bosnia – as manifested in the social protests of last year – must be the priority. economic prosperity is, however, possible only if it is based on a democratic and inclusive society. fighting corruption is another must as it affects all sectors, even health and education, exploiting the most vulnerable people. pressure for change in bosnia is coming from all sides, not only from the eu but also, and more importantly, from the citizens themselves. transparency in the process of planning and implementing reforms is crucial, and civil society must be included in the reform process. we remain fully committed to bosnia and herzegovina being part of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the european union’s renewed approach to bosnia and herzegovina. it represents a new opportunity for the country to improve its social and economic conditions and to advance towards eu membership, and that opportunity must not be lost. for too long there has been no progress, and we need to break this deadlock. it is high time the political leaders refrained from divisive nationalistic and secessionist rhetoric that polarises society, and high time that they engaged seriously in reforms to improve the lives of bosnia and herzegovina’s citizens. ensuring a better life for each and every citizen needs to be the priority for bosnia and herzegovina and within the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. it sends out a strong, clear message in favour of bosnia and herzegovina’s aspirations for greater european integration. bosnia and herzegovina’s eu membership ambition has the capacity to contribute to the democracy and stability of the country and the region as a whole. political dialogue and cooperation now need to take place to encourage the necessary reforms.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it gives a balanced view of the progress made in bosnia and herzegovina. it covers the most important issues, such as reform of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, media pluralism, and the need for socioeconomic reforms and for an inclusive and non-discriminatory education system.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the european union’s renewed approach to bosnia and herzegovina. it represents a new opportunity for the country to improve its social and economic conditions and to advance towards eu membership, and that opportunity must not be lost. for too long there has been no progress, and we need to break this deadlock. it is high time the political leaders refrained from divisive nationalistic and secessionist rhetoric that polarises society, and high time that they engaged seriously in reforms to improve the lives of bosnia and herzegovina’s citizens. ensuring a better life for each and every citizen needs to be the priority for bosnia and herzegovina and within the european integration process. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report contained several positive elements. in particular, it provided a critique of eu austerity, coupled with a call to put public investment back at the core of economic policy. in addition, it contained a critique of the european investment bank’s involvement in corruption cases, failed infrastructure projects and dangerous gas projects. in particular, it called for more investment in renewables and for the phasing-out of all energy projects in fossil fuels, and it also called for investment in regions with high unemployment and low gdp. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i felt it necessary to oppose this report because of the readiness of the ecb to purchase eib bonds, and because of the calls for the commission to take action – these principles do not accord with those of ukip.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european investment bank’s annual report because the eib performs a crucial role in the european economy. in 2013, the eib invested eur 5.8 bn in the uk – the largest annual investment ever, and nearly 10% of its total european investments. the role of the eib is only going to become more important as the eur 315 bn european fund for strategic investment is implemented and the eib selects which projects will benefit from the fund. so it is right that this report focuses on areas where the eib could improve – providing more help for smes, increasing its transparency and accountability, and ensuring that it invests in projects that deliver strong social and environmental returns.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the european investment bank’s 2013 annual report. the economic and financial crisis, coupled with austerity policies, has seriously undermined economic growth in many member states, leading to rapidly worsening social conditions, steadily growing inequalities and imbalances between european regions, and failure to achieve the objective of social cohesion and real convergence, thereby destabilising european integration and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european investment bank’s annual report because the eib performs a crucial role in the european economy. in 2013, the eib invested eur 5.8 billion in the uk – the largest annual investment ever, and nearly 10% of its total european investments. the role of the eib is only going to become more important as the eur 315 billion european fund for strategic investments is implemented and the eib selects which projects will benefit. so it is right that this report focuses on areas where the eib could improve – providing more help for smes, increasing its transparency and accountability, and ensuring that it invests in projects that deliver strong social and environmental returns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european investment bank’s annual report because the eib performs a crucial role in the european economy. in 2013, the eib invested eur 5.8 billion in the uk – the largest annual investment ever, and nearly 10% of its total european investments. the role of the eib is only going to become more important as the eur 315 billion european fund for strategic investments is implemented and the eib selects which projects will benefit. so it is right that this report focuses on areas where the eib could improve – providing more help for smes, increasing its transparency and accountability, and ensuring that it invests in projects that deliver strong social and environmental returns.
in writing. ‒ the report uses the milan expo as the vehicle to detail a ‘wishlist’ which will extend eu and commission activity at taxpayers’ expense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. bearing in mind that the final draft text includes positive references to sustainable agriculture, limiting food waste and tackling hunger worldwide, the resolution as tabled can send a strong political signal about parliament's concerns regarding food and farming worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the commission estimates that 30% of food worldwide is lost or wasted and that by 2020 annual food waste in the european union, currently approximately 89 million tonnes (179 kg per capita), will rise to approximately 126 million tonnes – a 40 % increase – unless preventive actions or measures are taken. better management of the food sector would mean more efficient land use, better water resource management and positive effects on the whole agricultural sector worldwide, while also furthering the fight against undernourishment and poor diets in the developing world.
in writing. ‒ this resolution includes positive references to sustainable agriculture, limiting food waste and tackling hunger worldwide. the resolution could have included clearer references to the un special rapporteur on the right to food, more positive references to principles of agro-ecology, problems with food distribution and the protection of traditional markets in developing countries. nonetheless, as the resolution sends a strong political signal of the european parliament’s concerns regarding food and farming worldwide i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to help achieve, at global level, the goals of the un food and agriculture organisation in order to support the development of agricultural, environmental and social policies that encourage sustainable family farming.
in writing. ‒ whilst agreeing with the sentiment of this resolution, i do not believe that calls for heavy eu involvement will make matters better and therefore i abstained on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the continuous wave of violent acts committed by the terrorist sect boko haram constitutes a crime against humanity. education, women’s rights, social justice and a fair distribution of state revenues in society, as well as the fight against corruption, must be at the forefront of the newly elected president’s political action, for they are key to fighting fundamentalism, violence and intolerance. we call on the european union and its member states to fulfil their commitment to providing a comprehensive range of political, development and humanitarian support to nigeria and its people in tackling the boko haram threat and ensuring the development of the country.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in support of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in nigeria. we condemn the ongoing and increasingly disturbing violence, including the continuing wave of gun and bomb attacks, suicide bombings, sexual slavery and other sexual violence, kidnappings and other violent acts committed by the terrorist sect boko haram against civilian, government and military targets in nigeria, which have led to thousands of deaths and injuries and have displaced hundreds of thousands of people, and which could constitute crimes against humanity.
member of the commission.– mr president, i welcome the opportunity of this emergency debate. the execution of the eight prisoners in indonesia has disappointed and saddened us, as well as the wider international community. i am sure honourable members will join in expressing our profound disappointment. the eu holds a strong and principled position against the death penalty, in all cases and in all circumstances, and works towards the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. this is a top eu foreign policy objective and priority in our external human rights policy. it is also evidenced by the commitments in the eu guidelines on the death penalty, the first ever human rights guidelines adopted by the council in 1998 and subsequently revised, most recently in 2013. the european union believes that the death penalty is cruel and inhuman and has not been shown in any way to act as a deterrent to crime. the european union regards the abolition of the death penalty as essential for the protection of human dignity, as well as for the progressive development of human rights. any miscarriage of justice – which is inevitable in any legal system – is irreversible. these latest executions are particularly outrageous, since, according to the united nations, drug offences do not meet the definition of serious crimes. through its foreign policy, the european union contributes to worldwide efforts towards abolition. between 1993 and 2012, the number of countries that abolished the death penalty by law for all crimes grew from 55 to 97. as of december 2012, 140 countries – more than two-thirds of the countries of the world – were abolitionist in law or practice. unfortunately, the picture is mixed in asia. pakistan is the most recent worrying example: since the breach of the longstanding moratorium and the resumption of executions on terrorism perpetrators, executions have already reached 100 this year. the wider region comprises countries like china, iraq, iran and saudi arabia – ranking among the highest worldwide in terms of executions – whilst a large majority of asian countries legally retain the death penalty. five asian countries have abolished the death penalty: bhutan, cambodia, nepal, mongolia and the philippines. this contrasting regional picture is marked by movements both towards restricting the use of death penalty – in china, singapore and thailand – and towards resuming executions – in india, indonesia, malaysia, pakistan and vietnam – or re—strengthening the legal base for the death penalty – in brunei and the maldives. indonesia, as a successful example of transition to democracy, has a particularly important role in south east asia. indonesia is the key player and ‘swing state’ in asean, representing some 40% of its gdp and population. it is an emerging global player and a member of the g20 with one of the fastest growing middle classes in the world, as well as the world’s largest muslim population. indonesia has the world’s fourth largest population (250 million people), is the third largest democracy and one which shares most, but unfortunately not all, of our values. the irony is that these executions have been carried out in the full democratic glare of a country that is arguably one of the freest and most democratic countries in south east asia with a powerful and active parliament and a vibrant and dynamic civil society. it has been agonising for the prisoners and their families as the events unfolded in slow motion. turning now to what concrete activities we have undertaken, the high representative has made three statements deeply regretting the use of the death penalty in indonesia, and the european union has worked closely together with the member states which have nationals on death row. the high representative/vice-president has called on the indonesian authorities to stop all pending executions and move towards a definitive moratorium. the eu authorities have also used all our different diplomatic channels to raise the issue of the death penalty with their indonesian counterparts. we also intend to launch shortly a regional awareness campaign entitled ‘moving away from the death penalty in south east asia’ which will be led by local civil society organisations and individuals. i also know that honourable members of this house have been active in trying to persuade the indonesian government of the need to abolish the death penalty and in efforts to prevent further executions. we have been clear in all our interventions that we fully respect indonesia’s sovereignty. we have also offered political support and practical assistance in combating the trade in narcotics and other criminal activities, which pose challenges to indonesian society and beyond. let me assure you that we will continue to engage with the indonesian authorities on the use of the death penalty. i very much look forward to hearing the views of the honourable members. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i just want to ask under rule 162(6) how you cancel ‘catch-the-eye’, because it says the remaining parts of a debate ‘shall’ be allocated not ‘may’ be allocated. i am not making a stale technical point here. i wanted to raise the case of a lady in my constituency who is currently on death row in indonesia for very similar charges to the recent executions and she was sentenced to death, despite the prosecution having asked for only a prison sentence. so i do want to raise that point if possible please.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, my group very strongly supports this resolution and i would echo the comments made by a number of previous colleagues and very much share them. the situation of ms savchenko is outrageous and, crucially, entirely within the control of the russian authorities. she is also emblematic and it is important to remember that she is not alone; she is not the only illegally held ukrainian national within russia, director oleg sentsov is in a similar situation and there are others. these are all covered within the minsk agreements and, let us be clear, russia is in breach of the minsk agreements. ms savchenko is being illegally held and we must urge our member states’ leaders and foreign ministers to play a much more vocal role within these discussions and raise her case and others at the next meeting of the contact group. i hope, commissioner, you will take these points on board.
author.– mr president, i will start by congratulating the rapporteurs and colleagues for the very constructive way in which we put this motion together. i think there is a great deal to be recommended within it. i very much support our previous speaker who set out the background to the yarmouk refugee camp. even the way it is described is slightly misleading; this is a long-established palestinian settlement on the outskirts of damascus, more of a suburb of a city rather than a camp in its own right. it has been in existence since 1957. it was supposed, of course, to be temporary, but until palestinian refugees can go home they remain particularly vulnerable. that is where this resolution is important. the palestinian people are particularly vulnerable within syria, with upwards of 480 000 palestinian refugees scattered across 60 camps throughout the wider region. ninety-five percent of these people rely on unrwa for their daily needs. the camp was besieged by the assad regime forces, creating a humanitarian disaster, and then became a battleground for various other factions, and remains so now. the chaos is a humanitarian crisis unfolding on the very outskirts of the syrian capital. we must see, as we have expressed in paragraph 9, humanitarian pauses in the fighting as proposed by un special envoy de mistura. we must also see the eu, as we state in paragraph 10, play a much greater role in brokering a political solution within syria, and i would also add palestine to give the refugees a home to go to. we welcome, of course, commissioner, the humanitarian aid the eu has given, but in this case the criticism of the eu as a payer rather than a player has never been more just. we must, for the people in the region and indeed ourselves, do better to foster a political solution.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, yesterday i spoke in this chamber about the attacks on christians in kenya and elsewhere, and there were comments on social media asking why i mentioned that and not other religions. but of course that is what yesterday’s debate was about, and today we are discussing a humanitarian crisis at the yarmouk refugee camp, which has actually grown to be an awful lot more than just a camp. i would like to assure this house and others that i utterly condemn the way in which the palestinian people have been treated, every bit as much as i condemned yesterday. as these injustices continue across that part of that world, day in and day out, i am saddened by the thought that so much of this has its roots in a militarily interventionist foreign policy which has failed in its attempt to protect vulnerable people. in healthcare there is a principle: first do no harm, and that principle goes all the way back to the hippocratic oath. perhaps that principle should be considered by governments over their foreign policies.
author.– mr president, if we are in any doubt about the impact of this house with its urgency procedures we need only take into account the actions of the algerian authorities in relation to this motion, and the fairly mild criticism therein. algeria is an important friend of the european union, an important partner in our ‘near abroad’, so it is all the more important that that partnership is frank and honest, and based upon our values and the rule of law. algeria has signed up to all the international agreements on human rights, labour rights and social rights that we could ask for, and they need to be implemented fully and genuinely. so in paragraph 1 we are right to highlight and condemn the ongoing detention of eight peaceful activists. their actions were peaceful and legitimate and they should be released now. paragraph 5 is the key one for my group. i will read it out: it calls on the algerian authorities to implement their obligations to protect ‘the right to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, and to take appropriate steps to ensure the safety and security of civil society activists and human rights defenders and their freedom to pursue their legitimate and peaceful activities’. we are right to expect our friends to live up to their humanitarian commitments, and presently algeria is not adequately doing so. as a friend of algeria, we must encourage them to do better; i believe we can.
, on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for all her hard work in putting forward a sensible approach to this file and accommodating so many political groups in the compromise position we are voting on tomorrow. this text provides a good framework for national competent authorities to supervise benchmark administrators within a sound european framework. this new regime will ensure that investors and consumers are protected across the entire eu. the approach rightly focuses a tough regime upon critical benchmarks and is not overly onerous upon other benchmarks that are easily substitutable. the focus upon transparency to users of benchmarks will allow investors and consumers to decide if they are happy with the way in which benchmarks are compiled and use alternatives should they find it necessary. the more proportionate approach taken within parliament’s text for non-critical benchmarks is to be welcomed. however, it is only possible if member states are also able to choose to elevate a benchmark that may not naturally fall into the critical category, should they feel it is systemically important to their domestic market; indeed they should be able to upgrade to critical status if they think that index is particularly susceptible to manipulation. as we begin negotiations with the council and the commission, i would urge all parties to pay particular attention to the way our third-country provisions interact, with a proportionate approach being proposed for non-critical benchmarks. the use of internationally—agreed iosco principles to measure equivalence is of fundamental importance to improving the standards that benchmark administrators globally are held to, without creating the many problems we have seen with other pieces of legislation that have had an extra—territorial effect. i look forward to working with the rapporteur and the rest of the negotiating team in trilogue to achieve a workable and beneficial outcome for all.
in writing.– i welcome this regulation: the benchmark scandals in the recent past clearly demonstrate what unregulated benchmarks can lead to. manipulating benchmarks amounts to stealing from investors and consumers and undermines confidence in markets. the commission fined the banks eur 1.7 billion. this regulation impacts consumersʼ daily lives as financial benchmarks determine the level of mortgage payments of millions of households in the eu. banks stating they cannot invest in the real economy had made buffers to pay fines amounting to billions for the benchmark manipulation. the agreement we voted upon in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) is a balanced and proportional outcome: transparency and supervision on the benchmark process have been increased and conflicts of interest are tackled. the difference between critical and non-critical benchmarks is key for me. the principal agreement on this that we reached in the econ committee is a first step, which still needs to be fine-tuned in the trilogues. however, i have to say that the process where one national competent authority (nca) can nominate a benchmark in another nca’s jurisdiction is critical; the process could set a detrimental precedent concerning the jurisdictional rights of an nca.
mr president, i would like to make two points. one is on setting targets and the second is on aid-giving itself. this institution believes that nations setting targets of 0.7% of gni and an eu foreign aid budget of eur 960 billion can only have positive outcomes. as is always the case, just throwing money at problems seldom solves the problem. the reality is that the culture of targets has caused an environment of deceit. in the uk, the conservative government is very proud of the fact that we achieved the target of 0.7% of gni last year. the british department for foreign aid and development forced civil servants to go on a gbp 1 billion spending spree at the end of 2013 just to hit that target. we have food banks, a gbp 30 billion black hole in our nhs, potholes everywhere, a failing education system, underfunded police with bobbies being taken off the beat everywhere, thousands of policemen being taken away from service, and reduced bin collection – now fortnightly and, in some places, monthly. libraries are closing, post offices are closing and street lights are being switched off. we can use that gbp 11.4 billion much better in the uk than giving it, in many cases, to dictators and people who squander it. my second point is that there is no guarantee that the aid that we give to some of the poor countries has had any lasting effect whatsoever. some of the countries are still as poor as they were 20 years ago. i ask this institution to remove the barriers it has placed on these countries; remove the common fisheries policies from their shores and allow them to sell their goods at a rate that suits them. increase the trade, decrease the aid and you will see that poorer countries will start to flourish. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162((8))
blue-card answer.– in a word: yes. we need to reduce the foreign aid that we are giving, regardless of whether it is to the commonwealth or not. i come from a country which has suffered very badly from the economic problems started in 2008. we have not recovered from it. why is it that we are taxing widows and old people in my country in order to give foreign aid, in many cases in very ill-thought-out situations? it is immoral of any government to tax people to give aid. my nation already gives gbp 9 billion a year through charity donations to charities like oxfam and so forth, which is already 0.7% of our gdi. we do not need to tax people in order to do that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think we are improving, without a doubt, because there have been some extremely bad circumstances and situations where aid has hit all the headlines for all the wrong reasons. but the reality is that we have a gbp 96 billion deficit, we have a gbp 1.5 trillion national debt. we cannot borrow money to give in aid. when we sort our house out, when we get our own house in order, then we will be in a situation to help other people more strongly. but until we get our house in order, i do not believe that putting my grandchildren into debt is a wise move in this situation.
mr president, i certainly welcome the four agreements between the eu member states and the four tobacco companies. these are used to tackle illicit trade in tobacco and cigarettes and, of course, they actually benefit the tobacco companies as well because, without these agreements, these tobacco companies would be losing revenue, so there is an incentive for them to sign these agreements. but this is also important for the eu and our member states so that we can reduce the amount lost in customs and excise duties, and there are also the funds which are provided by the tobacco companies, as part of the agreement, to the eu and to member states. therefore, i would hope that the existing agreements will continue and those which are due to expire will be renewed as soon as possible. i would also say that we should not forget the health and security dimension of these agreements. it is important to restrict large amounts of cheap tobacco from coming onto the market for health reasons. it is also important to stop income from tobacco smuggling going to terrorist groups inside and outside of the european union. so in view of that i would support us asking the commissioner to produce an assessment of the effectiveness of the current arrangements, if not this month then hopefully at the june plenary session, and i am pleased that she did indicate in her contribution that that might be possible. finally, i would also hope that member states sign the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products and cigarettes. i think this is important. this will allow us to tackle the problem not just inside the european union but also the illicit trade coming to the european union from outside. so i would urge member states to ratify that particular protocol as soon as possible. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr vaughan, my colleague from wales, do you accept that welsh consumers are being served best by plain-paper packaging and open borders that allow smugglers easy access throughout europe? granted, we do have a closed border in the uk because we are an island, but it is much easier for smugglers to get their products onto the borders of the uk. do you think that welsh consumers are being served best by these policies?
blue-card answer.– thank you for the question, my welsh colleague. as other speakers have said, the uk is not part of the schengen agreement and i know, as you know, because we travel on a regular basis, that border control is quite strictly observed at uk airports and ferries. so it is much more difficult to smuggle anything into the uk. but what we are talking about here is an agreement with tobacco companies to make it even more difficult in the future for anybody – those inside the eu and those outside the eu – who want to bring these illicit goods into the european union.
mr president, of course we all want to stop counterfeiting and the trade in illicit cigarettes but, while we have a complete open door policy across the whole of europe, how on earth are we meant to check for quality and control for contraband? these agreements are nothing more than the eu putting a gun to the head of international tobacco companies to hand over billions of euros to the eu. no wonder there is such an enormous trade in illegal goods. how does the eu propose to try to tackle the problem of counterfeit goods? it calls for plain packaging of cigarettes, which will be a counterfeiter’s dream! if the eu and the tories have their way, standard plain packaging will make counterfeiting much easier by taking away all the complicated wrapping and markings that the tobacco companies put on their products to make sure they are of quality. there will be a flood of counterfeit goods coming into the eu. how on earth are we going to protect consumers? they want to smoke cigarettes. they do not want to smoke goodness knows what. they only want to smoke cigarettes. the eu negotiating important international agreements on taking large sums of cash to squander is completely undemocratic. this should be the province of the nation state and nothing to do with the eu. through these agreements, the tobacco companies have committed to paying the eu collectively usd 2.15 billion. this is an eu protection racket worthy of the late al capone and another example of the dark and perverted science of the eu.
mr president, these tobacco agreements are not perfect. they have been criticised across the house today, not least for the toothless provisions such as seizure-based payments and for initiating close collaboration between the industry and the eu – illustrated by the very difficult adoption of the tobacco products directive and by the delaying tactics that we have seen sometimes at the very highest levels in the eu. that said, the agreements have contributed to addressing the issue of counterfeit cigarettes and the parallel market as part of the eu’s wider strategy to step up the fight against the illicit tobacco trade. in the absence of plans for anything else, i believe that we should cautiously welcome their renewal, but i note that much more needs to be done. the best way of combating this sort of fraud is to stop demand in the first place. we should stop, as far as we can, people taking up this disgusting habit. so i would urge the commission to make sure that implementation of the tobacco products directive moves ahead swiftly and that swift transposition is encouraged.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, commissioner ansip acknowledges that by creating a connected digital single market, we can generate up to eur 250 billion of additional growth in europe, thereby creating hundreds and thousands of new jobs and a vibrant knowledge-based society. but commissioner, to achieve this we do need several regulatory reforms and one of these is the tax treatment of digital products. i do support the need for alignment of vat rates to ensure we have a level playing field and to eliminate distortion of competition, and tackling vat fraud should remain a priority, but it is important not to forget the proportionality principle. so when on 1 january 2015 the new vat rules on digital products sold in the eu came into force, which means that they are chargeable in the place of purchase rather than the place of supply, this resulted in many eu businesses having to register an account for vat in every single member state. i have been contacted by many new—tech smes which have been adversely affected and are on the point of closing down. so we do need to address this issue. for example, in the uk, there are about 240 000 designers of knitting and sewing patterns which are sold as pdf downloads. they are struggling in terms of the cost of compliance, especially if they trade across borders. they face something like eur 5 000 annually for each member state. so i am not sure how we are going to achieve the digital single market if we have regulations like this. european smes also face distortions from vat-free goods supplied by non-eu businesses. so i welcome what you have said in terms of introducing legislation and simplifying measures, but i do think it is important that we get the right level of threshold that enables a higher number of digital start-ups, and that means exemptions for them. there are some important issues, commissioner, that you do have to address. how are you going to achieve a threshold given that you need the agreement of 28 member states? secondly, what will the level of the threshold be? in the uk, it is gbp 81 000, but i think we may need to go lower if we are to achieve our ambitions.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i would like you all to imagine for a moment that you have just set up a small digital business. perhaps you sell e—books or knitting patterns online. you have heard about the digital single market, and you are excited to think that you can sell to customers not only in your own country, but across the whole eu. you know that you need to register for vat but when you look into it, you find that you need to keep accounts for up to 10 years and calculate up to 88 different vat rates set by the countries you sell to. someone tells you that you can automate the process, but you find the system either does not work, or that you have to sell through an online marketplace that charges you a large fee and may interrupt your sales process to sell other products to your customers. so what do you do? do you feel inspired by this new digital single market, or do you give up and shut up shop? well, eu vat action and enterprise nation, who represent digital entrepreneurs, tell me that thousands of their members are closing down. so while the commission champions the digital single market, eu rules since january 2015 are strangling digital businesses to death with red tape. now we all know that these rules are well-meaning and introduced to tackle abuses by multinational companies, so why do we not introduce a threshold – or even an exemption – a limit below which digital entrepreneurs could continue as before, and then when their businesses grow larger, bring them into this new system? let us not forget that every large business started as a small business. most great entrepreneurs started with nothing. so if the eu is to be a place for aspiration and opportunity and we are to create this digital single market, then we need to help them. let us listen to the digital entrepreneurs asking for our help. let us introduce a threshold or an exemption to save their micro-businesses. let us cut the red tape to make the digital single market a reality for them.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking commissioner ansip for his attempts to build a digital single market, and in particular for his willingness to listen to the problems of the many small business people in the uk who have faced enormous difficulties with the shift in the vat regime that came into force on 1 january. my understanding is that the commission originally proposed a threshold for micro-businesses but that this was not taken up. i can only think that the digital economy has advanced rapidly since that time and that politicians had not managed to understand how it was changing. on the positive side it has been really inspiring to see the creative enterprise that has been flourishing in my constituency and the wonderful potential there is for the digital economy to help us to build cultural and social links between the countries of our union. these businesses are often run by the very people we seek to encourage into starting small businesses, especially women and those living in rural communities. they are now selling songs and teaching materials, knitting patterns and recipes, to customers in countries they may never have visited. but these businesses are fundamentally threatened, as other speakers have said, by the ending of the vat exemption. i know that many of these entrepreneurs are already closing down their export operations or sometimes their whole business because the vat regime is just too onerous. i know that commissioner ansip has heard their cry for help but i would like to ask him to act swiftly and decisively to support the small businesses of the uk and other countries affected.
mr president, if our economies are to prosper and grow we must support small businesses and make sure that the market is fit for purpose in the digital age. the new rules for vat collection in europe do not do this. they might work for big businesses, but they have had a devastating impact on microbusinesses. entrepreneurs have faced huge bureaucracy and costs just to collect taxes which sometimes add up to less than a euro. a recent survey of 2 000 small companies suggested that a quarter of firms are now blocking overseas sales, and one in five has stopped selling altogether. that means they are not earning any money, and the authorities are not collecting any tax at all. we have promised to change the way the eu makes laws. we need to sort this out, and it needs to be done quickly. i think the easiest solution is an exemption, through a threshold, for micro entities, but that needs unanimous support from finance ministers. so ministers, do not wait; next year is too late. our entrepreneurs need us now.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner ansip. just two weeks ago, he presented his long-awaited and much-hyped digital single market strategy. the proposals, 16 of which are to be delivered in the next five years, are a step in the right direction. but they are by no means a silver bullet. as we have heard this evening, not all proposed initiatives seem to be working for smes and micro businesses. in fact, my labour colleagues and i have received, and keep receiving, hundreds of e—mails from our constituents saying that the changes introduced from 1 january 2015 on new place of supply vat rules, as well as the abolition of the uk threshold, which was gbp 81 000 in sales per year before people and businesses were eligible to pay vat, have caused more obstacles when selling abroad rather than helping to eliminate them. the mini one-stop shop, the vat moss, was set up in order to aid businesses when selling abroad. how can they adjust their prices accordingly if they do not know what the vat regime is in the country they are selling to? commissioner, in your digital market strategy, there is a mention the commission will make legislative proposals in 2016 to introduce a common eu-wide vat threshold to help small businesses; but by the time it becomes law, we could well be in 2017 or 2018. what do we do to help businesses in the meantime? the current legislation was designed and agreed back in 2006. however, that is almost a decade ago. i was pleased to hear what you said about e-books and the treatment of e-books in relation to printed books. currently, printed books have a special privilege and are taxed at a reduced rate between zero and 10% across the union. e-books are considered a digital service, even if they are actually only a book in a different format, and they are taxed at a rate between 18% and 25% across the eu. so i welcome your comments, but i would like to see the proposals on that fairness between the virtual and non-virtual coming sooner rather than later, so that consumers across the eu can benefit from your action.
in writing.– proposals contained in the commission’s digital single market strategy to reduce the burden of new eu vat rules for online firms are a very welcome development. the commission has shown it is listening and wants to reduce the barriers the new rules have created for microbusinesses trying to sell their services across the eu however, as with any eu legislation we know it will take some time for these proposals to be debated and implemented. for the microbusinesses struggling to survive, there is no time to waste. already there are clear issues with different levels of compliance and enforcement across eu member states. the commission and national governments must now look at what can be done immediately to help small businesses cope, including a temporary suspension of the rules while a solution is found.
mr president, with the debate on ttip picking up across the atlantic, it is becoming clear that both the eu and the us executives have severely misjudged the public mood on investor-state dispute settlement or isds. isds has proved to be an obstacle for congress to support ttip. in this house, a large and growing number of meps are conditioning their support for the continuing negotiations on the full rejection of isds. eu citizens are not prepared to compromise on democracy and they will not accept us compromising on isds either. sadly, the commission remains intransigent in its defence of multinationals’ privileges when it should be the champion of citizens, justice and fairness. isds is like a cancer and the commission is letting it infect the whole of ttip. this undermines ttip’s potential to open up trade and set the high global standards that our companies and our workers urgently need.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, tomorrow we have big decisions to make in order to stop the fuelling of conflict through the extraction of, and trade in, minerals and metals in conflict areas around the world. while we cannot agree on the form of the eu’s approach and which direction it should take, at least we can agree that this is a problem that must be overcome. unfortunately, in my view, there is a real risk that by going in a certain direction we make matters worse for those on the ground. this is not what we want to do. while there are differences between the us dodd-frank act and the mandatory measures being proposed by some groups, my concern is that the effects of a full mandatory approach will have similarly cumbersome requirements, particularly for the downstream supply chain. the response of many european companies, following the implementation of these requirements, will be to source elsewhere, creating de facto embargoes to the detriment of innocent miners and their families. evidence from the congo already points to this very problem. so my alternative proposals are clear. we have established that there is a pinch point in the supply chain where there is a very realistic opportunity to determine the source of the minerals. a political compromise in the committee vote led to a mandatory approach being taken for this critical part of the supply chain, and i am happy to support it. whether we like it or not, further down the supply chain it becomes more and more unfeasible for companies to prove where minerals used in finished products have come from. this does not mean that attempts cannot in fact be made to find verification, and they are already being made through many industry schemes which we should recognise and also encourage. but as long as we adopt a strong review clause, which i believe we have done in our committee vote, it gives us the opportunity to assess the impact of our legislation and particularly to take into consideration the voluntary uptake for the scheme for downstream companies and the impact that it has really had on the ground. if changes need to be made at that point, then we will make them in full possession of the facts, rather than rushing into creating a top-down scheme that may do more harm than good. at this point we will see what works, what does not work, and what more needs to be done to eliminate the use of these minerals and metals to fund conflict worldwide. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i have one simple question: do you consider that the european union, rather than, for example, the united nations, is the best forum in which to deal with this matter?
blue-card answer.– that is a very interesting question that you have posed to us. i am concerned that there are colleagues in this house that are more concerned about the parliament’s credibility than they are about the livelihoods of these people and the condition of their lifestyle on the ground in conflict areas. some people may want to vote for a mandatory scheme. they will sleep well at night and they will have a nice press release – not considering the full impact of what it is going to have on the ground. this is what we need to focus on if we are really to be credible parliamentarians here in the big european parliament.
mr president, it is of course utterly reprehensible that in conflict zones armed groups force innocent people to extract minerals. but let us not forget the role that the eu has played in creating the poverty, particularly in africa, that engenders armed groups and makes illegal trading in metals so attractive in the first place. the eu is fully complicit – and i wish people would realise this – and the eu should stop its protectionist and destructive trade policies that impoverish the african continent and thus create the context in which the trade in conflict metals flourishes. further, and predictably, the eu is behind the pace in cracking down on conflict minerals. the united states has already acted, and indeed the dodd-frank act was passed and enacted in july 2010, four years ago. it is this us law that has already reduced funds to groups that thrive on conflict minerals by almost two thirds. i want to see an end to the exploitation and the use of conflict minerals, but the best way forward is a scheme, headed by the united nations and working with individual african countries, not a scheme under eu control. the eu’s track record in africa is wholly underwhelming.
mr president, i think what africa wants is not more bleeding hearts but actually some serious action. what we are hearing from the centre and the right of this house is, frankly, just more bleeding hearts. as maria arena rightly said, while for countries like australia, canada and norway resources have been a great boon and have helped their economies enormously, for africa resources have been a curse. today, and tomorrow in the vote, we have a chance to turn that curse into a blessing. we can make an enormous contribution to stopping the exploitation of africa’s miners and workers by local rebel groups on the one hand and, on the other hand to stopping their exploitation by unscrupulous european traders who do not know – or do not care – where the raw materials come from. we need a mandatory due diligence scheme from the start to the end of the supply chain. in the world’s biggest market we have a duty to the people of africa mining these minerals for our smart phones, and to our citizens in europe who are asking for this change. voluntary guidelines have been in place for years and 80% of european companies are ignoring these guidelines. due diligence is not working. anything short of a full mandatory scheme would be a failure and, frankly, a shame on this parliament. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, what we have heard from the other side is an attack on due diligence as if due diligence is something new that does not work and we have to look after our industry. but we have had due diligence in the food sector, we have had it in the financial sector, and we have had it in the timber sector. due diligence does indeed work. what i find, what i pity, is that people on the other side of this house are trying to make excuses as to why due diligence would not work in this situation. i fear, even now, that they are more interested in looking after european interests than actually dealing with the problem in africa.
mr president, we need to recognise the fact that we are massively behind the curve on this. both in the us and china they have recognised the need for mandatory schemes, and i applaud the fact that many on other sides of this house have changed their mind and have a firm view on this. but we need to be clear that it would be utterly ludicrous to subject just 19 or 20 european companies to this scheme, not least because the smes that we are talking about would be excluded from the additional public trust and confidence that this scheme would bring. the oecd due diligence guidelines are not onerous, and application throughout and across the supply chain would create a level playing field for all businesses and all companies. we do this for timber, we do this for diamonds. i do not believe that it is too much to ask us to do the same for these minerals.
mr president, i want to make it absolutely clear that what the committee on development supported is not what is on the table now from the committee on international trade (inta). what is on the table now has been rejected by many people. you all have a letter here from over 140 catholic bishops; you have seen the letter from dr mukwege; you have seen the letter from the ngos: they are saying that the inta proposals are not good enough. they should be rejected and replaced by the amendments. so do not delude yourselves, on the other side of the house, into thinking that you are doing what the people want in the drc, in the great lakes, in the conflict zones. if you support the inta committee, you are doing what the business lobbyists want in this house. if we vote tomorrow along the lines of the inta committee, we will have a fig leaf of legislation which pretends to do something, but which actually achieves nothing at all. so i plead with you, do not listen to those who tell you that you are doing what the people in drc want. they have been here, they have told us what they want: they want proper regulation throughout the supply chain. that is what we need to support.
mr president, as this parliament’s rapporteur on corporate social responsibility, i view this legislation on conflict minerals as a test of europe’s claim to be a leader on responsible business. it was disappointing that the commission proposal was weaker than the equivalent dodd-frank act in the united states, and it is right that europe should at least match it. europe says we support the un guiding principles on business and human rights, but voluntary self-certification is not enough. our amendments seek to broaden the scope, to end the anomaly that the law would cover blood gold but not blood diamonds, to include not just raw materials but products made out of them, to recognise that europe is responsible for a quarter of this trade worldwide, but that this proposal covers only one in 2 000 of our companies affected. to the christian democrats, i would say that 70 bishops wrote a letter supporting our position, not yours, as does christian aid. you voted for a sakharov prize winner, and he asked you to vote for our position. today, i hope you will use your conscience to vote with us. i have seen the victims of this evil trade in the democratic republic of congo and in colombia, and i am going to vote to end their suffering.
in writing.– many constituents have been in touch, asking this parliament to vote for a strong eu law to break the link between mineral extraction and the financing of armed groups in areas of conflict. profits from so-called ‘conflict minerals’ are being used to fuel further violence and killing. the commission proposal seeks to combat this outrage with a voluntary scheme, but this has been tried and failed in the past. i call upon colleagues to vote for a mandatory scheme, similar to that already adopted in the united states. to be effective, the law must ensure full coverage of the supply chain. this approach would give accountability and binding regulation on everything from mine to consumer – whether it be the process of extracting the minerals, or the manufacture of the smartphones or laptops that they end up in. it is essential that companies in the supply chain are covered, so that we can be sure that the goods we all use as consumers are included. i urge my fellow meps to vote for an effective law, and i hope that such an approach can be agreed on by the member state government ministers, with the parliament and commission, so it can be put into practice.
in writing.– conflict minerals are so-named because they are sourced in opaque or illegal practices in unstable areas of the world. for example, in the democratic republic of the congo (drc), tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are sourced in conditions of extreme exploitation, violence and slavery. according to the international peace information service, armed groups are present at more than half of all mining sites in the drc, where the local population is coerced into working in the mines and controlled by rape and violence. these minerals are present in our phones, our cars, even our food cupboards. we are complicit in modern—day slavery unless we take action now. a voluntary scheme of self-certification will not work. the eu can be a powerful force in using soft power and trade to improve the lives of the most vulnerable, and we cannot pretend a voluntary system is enough. the upcoming vote can and should strengthen existing laws and i urge my fellow meps to be part of that force. binding rules for firms involved in the production and trade of minerals are crucial for keeping conflict minerals out of europe. this is our contribution to the fight against modern—day slavery.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, unlocking the benefits of the digital economy is key to driving competitiveness, jobs and growth. the single market is meant to make it easy to trade across 28 countries, and it must be fit for purpose in the digital age. the commission strategy is good in parts, but needs more work in others. we need to focus on practical solutions to break down barriers to trade, to remove unnecessary red tape and to encourage investment. we must make it easier, not harder, for innovation to flourish, and be mindful that the digital market is a global market. building a fortress around europe will not work. we should listen to what users are asking for. businesses want it to be easy to set up and sell on line to 500 million consumers with lower costs and simple secure systems so that they get paid. consumers want to be able to trust that their purchases will arrive and that faulty goods can be returned, replaced or refunded. platforms in the shared economy are growing because businesses and consumers want to use them, and people do want to be able to shop wherever they are and take their films, books and music with them when they travel. but enabling portability must not create a back door for piracy. creators do need to know that their work, their copyright, has value and can be enforced. security is key, especially for parents who want to know that their children are safe online. researchers want to unlock the benefits of big data – huge benefits for medicine, for the environment, for the economy – but individuals also want to know that their data is safe. then there is the call for more modern manufacturing and more modern infrastructure. in all of this, investors in enterprises want legal clarity and the certainty of a level playing field. the digital economy must be fair, transparent and open. in europe, sometimes our grand plans do stall, and many times small steps reach a destination faster. top-down legislation, heavy-handed bans and centralised controls – we know how these can put a handbrake on innovation and investment. so let us make sure our actions are targeted and be wary of unintended consequences. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– the strategy is good in parts, and we must unlock the benefits, but as in all areas of european legislation, it is pointless just passing laws in this house if they do not work on the ground and if they cannot be enforced back in the member states. we need to focus on unlocking growth, and that means also removing unnecessary legislation where we do not need it. so let us be targeted in our actions.
the eu’s arrogant disregard for small businesses is staggering, and that arrogance has a disproportionate impact on the uk. the uk is now the eu’s second largest economy, largely because of the growth of small businesses. in the uk we have a vat threshold for small businesses, including digital ones, so that they are not suffocated by vat regulations. the eu’s obsession with harmonising tax has led it to force the uk to abandon vat thresholds for some online businesses. not content with burdening business with complicated rules, the online disclosure requirements are impossible for small businesses to comply with. the eu has now given small businesses outside the eu a competitive advantage over uk businesses. it is imperative that the uk regain that competitive edge. the uk should freely trade with the eu, but should not be a vassal state of this institution.
mr president, the commissioner has very correctly identified some of the core issues that we must address: better access across the european union and high—quality infrastructure. certainly in my constituency in the north-west of england, in cumbria, we are seeing the benefits of broadband connectivity provided through the european union. there is so much else that has been put forward here that must be delivered, but from a citizens’ viewpoint, this is a crucial test for the european union. however, we are already behind. as far as our citizens are concerned, so many of them are already frustrated. when they pass through actual borders they do it seamlessly, but every time they do so we reinforce a virtual border for them in real terms. when the law is an ass, people will find a way around it. that is what we must do: ensure that they do not have to do that. recent telecoms experience dictates to us that time is indeed of the essence. so many of our new start-ups are crying out for their vision to be fulfilled through the digital single market. please allow us to deliver that for them and do not allow it to be constrained by the short-sightedness and small-mindedness that some of the contributors demonstrated in this debate today.
mr president, the digital single market only means something if people have access to the internet, and there are two very distinct examples of people’s experiences in my constituency. a six-year eu-funded project is just coming to an end in cornwall. this has meant that the county has had an incredible experience wth the roll-out of superfast broadband. for example, 40% of fibre-to-the-premises (fttp) connections in the uk are in this single county; 2 000 jobs have been created or safeguarded; 83% of smes say time and money has been saved as a consequence; and 58% of smes say they are growing as a result of this project. in the neighbouring county, they have had a very different experience as a consequence of not having that combined funding that cornwall has received. please look at these experiences and the difference effective eu funding can make for consumers, businesses and schools across the eu.
madam president, a vote was being taken and while that vote was being taken you gave a political commentary on that vote. i do not think that is right.
in writing. ‒ to be consistent with previous votes, i supported the ukip position and voted against this report. the uk should be in charge of its own trading relationship with switzerland and therefore i opposed this proposal to codify regulation no 2841/72.
in writing. ‒ the uk should be in charge of its own relationship with switzerland and we are thus against the eu regulating it on our behalf. the regulation deals with aspects of the trade relationship between the eu and switzerland. ukip’s consistent position is that such matters should be entirely within the remit of her majesty’s government and the uk parliament.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to support this report as it simply codifies existing texts without any substantial change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the duda report, given it simply concerns a codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, supported this report on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation as the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is simply a codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of the council of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. i note that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is simply to give parliament’s consent to the union acceding to this convention, which has already been ratified by the member states individually.
in writing. ‒ we supported the report on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation as the proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is a codification to take into account changes in the relationship between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ much of this convention duplicates directive 98/84/ec, but in any case i believe that sovereign nations should legislate for themselves against piracy relating to conditional access services. this does not need to be enacted at european level and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ it is the remit of the uk parliament to decide the rules, laws and regulations regarding so called ‘protected services’ such as the tv and radio. the uk parliament is much better placed to decide on legislation that protects, for example, the bbc than the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to support this proposal as the convention, in fact, extends the scope of the framework provided by directive 98/84/ec to the field outside the union, thereby combating threats to protected services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the svoboda report giving parliament’s consent to the union acceding to this convention, which has already been ratified by the member states individually.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, supported this report as it gives parliament’s consent for the eu accede to this convention, which has already been ratified by the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it simply gives parliament’s consent to the union acceding to this convention, which has already been ratified by the member states individually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is simply to give parliament’s consent to the union acceding to this convention, which has already been ratified by the member states individually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report as it simply gives parliamentʼs consent to the european union acceding to this convention, which has already been ratified by the member states individually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament’s consent to the european union acceding to the european convention on the legal protection of services based on, or consisting of, conditional access.
in writing. ‒ this vote was not a roll-call vote. therefore, in the interests of democracy i believe that the public has the right to know how i voted on this issue. i voted to waive immunity in this case because the alleged offence does not relate to the role of mep and there is no obvious clear injustice as regards this case. the request for referral back to committee from mr verhofstadt covered legal issues; two minutesʼ discussion is insufficient for me to determine how to vote on that. these matters should be treated with a degree of seriousness which the rules of procedure do not permit. i reluctantly followed the rapporteurʼs line on that vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, given that the alleged offence does not relate to his role of mep.
in writing. ‒ this waiver concerns an alleged offence committed before mr uspaskich became a member of the european parliament and the pre-trial proceedings had already been initiated before he assumed his seat in the european parliament. therefore, the criminal proceedings to be brought against mr uspaskich are not connected with his current position as an mep.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons of the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted that the european parliament should waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich for the reasons set out in the report.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence was committed before viktor uspaskich became a member of the european parliament and the pre-trial proceedings had already been initiated before he assumed his seat in the european parliament. it follows that the criminal proceedings to be brought against viktor uspaskich are not connected with his current office as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, a lithuanian mep.
in writing. ‒ this vote was not a roll-call vote. therefore, in the interests of democracy i believe that the public has the right to know how i voted on this issue. i voted to waive immunity in this case because the alleged offence does not relate to the role of mep and there is no obvious clear injustice as regards this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux given that the alleged offence does not relate to the role of mep.
in writing. ‒ the alleged charges are not related to the performance of mr lavrilleux’s duties as an mep but concern his previous responsibilities as a member of a presidential election campaign team two years before he was elected an mep. there is no well-founded suspicion that the legal proceedings have been instituted with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons of the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted that the european parliament should waive the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux for the reasons set out in the report.
in writing. ‒ the alleged charges are not related to the performance of mr lavrilleux’s duties as a member of the european parliament but related to his previous responsibilities in a presidential election campaign team set up for a vote that took place two years before mr lavrilleux was elected a member of the european parliament. there is no well-founded suspicion that the legal proceedings have been instituted with the intention of causing political damage to the member.
in writing. ‒ i supported this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux.
in writing. ‒ this vote was not a roll-call vote. therefore, in the interests of democracy i believe that the public has the right to know how i voted on this issue. i voted to waive immunity in this case because the alleged offence does not relate to the role of mep and there is no obvious clear injustice as regards this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of korwin-mikke given that the alleged offence does not relate to the role of mep.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons of the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke for the reasons set out in the report.
in writing. ‒ it appears from the circumstances of the case and from the statements made by mr korwin-mikke at his hearing that there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis. indeed, although the facts occurred when mr korwin-mikke was already a member of the european parliament and in an explicitly political context, the alleged offence and the ensuing prosecution clearly have nothing to do with the position of mr korwin-mikke as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the polish mep janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ this vote was not a roll-call vote. therefore, in the interests of democracy i believe that the public has the right to know how i voted on this issue. i voted to waive immunity in this case because the alleged offence does not relate to the role of mep and there is no obvious clear injustice as regards this case.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence concerned has no link with mr zagorakis’s position as a member of the european parliament. rather, it is connected to his position as president of the paok football club. we therefore voted to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons of the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of theodoros zagorakis for the reasons set out in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence clearly has no link with mr zagorakis’s post as a member of the european parliament, but rather is connected to his position as president of the paok football club. we voted to waive the immunity of theodoros zagorakis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, a greek mep.
in writing. ‒ as ukip does not believe in ecosoc, it was consistent to vote against this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european union could work far more effectively and discussion of this is to be welcomed. i believe that wales could make a huge contribution to a more relevant and efficient eu if nations like ours had a greater and clearly—defined role. it would make the eu more democratic.
in writing. ‒ the european economic and social committee cost the european taxpayer roughly eur 120 million in 2014 and will do so again in 2015. this money could be put to far better use, especially at a time when governments across europe are cutting down on expenditure. rather than engage in consultations with the european economic and social committee, we should abolish it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request as i believe it is appropriate that the economic and social committee be consulted regarding the improvement of the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on ‘improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty’.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as it is only a technical vote to allow for consultation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty’.
in writing. ‒ i supported this request for consultation of the economic and social committee in relation to improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ as ukip does not believe in ecosoc, it was consistent to vote against this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european union could work far more effectively and discussion of this is to be welcomed. i believe that wales could make a huge contribution to a more relevant and efficient eu if nations like ours had a greater and clearly—defined role. it would make the eu more democratic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request as i believe it is appropriate that the economic and social committee be consulted regarding possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as it is only a technical vote to allow for consultation.
in writing. ‒ we voted in support of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the european union’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was a request for consultation of the economic and social committee regarding possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am against the existence of the committee of the regions; it is an expensive talking shop and this exercise will cost much taxpayers’ money for little, if any, real effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european union could work far more effectively and discussion of this is to be welcomed. i believe that wales could make a huge contribution to a more relevant and efficient eu if nations like ours had a greater and clearly—defined role. it would make the eu more democratic.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions cost the european taxpayer roughly 80 million euros in 2014 and will do so again in 2015. this money could be put to far better use, especially at a time when governments across europe are cutting down on expenditure. rather than engage in consultations with the committee of the regions, we should abolish it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the requested consultation with the committee of the regions, given that the committee, in its capacity as one of the main eu institutions, should be consulted on constitutional affairs that will deal with improving the functioning of the european union and which will build on the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, voted in support of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on ‘improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty’.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as it is only a technical vote to allow for consultation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this request for the consultation of the committee of the regions regarding improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european union could work far more effectively and discussion of this is to be welcomed. i believe that wales could make a huge contribution to a more relevant and efficient eu if nations like ours had a greater and clearly—defined role. it would make the eu more democratic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request, given that it is appropriate that the committee of the regions be consulted on constitutional affairs that will deal with possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, voted in support of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on ‘possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the european union’.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as it is only a technical vote to allow for consultation.
in writing. ‒ i voted to allow this request for the consultation of the committee of the regions regarding possible evolutions and adjustments of the current institutional set—up of the european union.
madam president, i gave my support to the report on benchmarks. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen. the benchmark scandals in the recent past clearly demonstrate what unregulated benchmarks can lead to. manipulating them amounts to stealing from investors and consumers and undermines confidence in markets. the commission fined the banks something like eur 1.7 billion for this. this regulation will impact consumers’ daily lives, as financial benchmarks determine the level of the mortgage payments of millions of households in the eu. banks, while stating that they cannot invest in the real economy, have made buffers to pay billions in fines for benchmark manipulation. the agreement that we voted upon in the committee on economic and monetary affairs has a balanced and proportional outcome. transparency and supervision on the benchmark process have been increased, and conflicts of interest have been tackled.
madam president, my party and i voted against the commission proposals that were the subject of the report by cora van nieuwenhuizen on benchmarks and giving more power to the commission. benchmarks are an essential part of the financial sector and markets. regulation is already covered in the uk by our own regulator. this regulation extends the scope to include commodities and on their benchmarks and we believe there should not be more reach and over-reach by the eu. these regulations will result in fewer benchmarks and less price discovery, and give non-eu investment managers and businesses a competitive advantage over europe and the uk. it will drive jobs out of europe and lower economic growth. once again, i will say ‘yes’ to the uk and ‘no’ to the eu, because once again, the eu is driving business out of europe.
in writing. ‒ the uk has introduced its own legislation on these issues, which is working well enough. the concern about harmonisation, other than the obvious subsidiarity issue, is that it could potentially lead to lower standards in the uk.
in writing. ‒ regulation should be made by member states, the uk has existing legislation which is more than sufficient. furthermore, these regulations will include commodities benchmarks resulting in fewer benchmarks overall, less price discovery, and advantages for investment managers from outside the eu who will be able to access this information.
in writing. ‒ the manipulation of the libor and foreign exchange benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, has highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their vulnerabilities. legislation of benchmarks, however, also has to consider that a great many businesses, as well as households, investors and financial institutions, rely on accessible benchmarks from all over the eu and beyond on a daily basis to efficiently conduct business, do trade, invest, hedge risks and provide or obtain credit.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my s&d colleagues, voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the new rules will contribute to the accuracy and integrity of benchmarks used in financial instruments and financial contracts by ensuring that contributors to benchmarks are subject to prior authorisation and ongoing supervision depending on the type of benchmark.
in writing. ‒ the economic crash proved that our financial institutions need to be fully regulated. the libor scandal emphasises that banks cannot be trusted to regulate themselves. the commission proposal is therefore welcome in so far as it goes. unfortunately parliament has voted to weaken the proposal and that is to be regretted.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as the text offers a good balance between critical and non-critical benchmarks and is a good compromise to be used in negotiations with the council.
in writing. ‒ the manipulation of the libor and foreign exchange benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, has highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their vulnerabilities. in response to these revelations, the eu amended the market abuse legislation, to clarify that manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and to bring such conduct into the remit of criminal law. however, a comprehensive approach to regulating benchmark manipulation has to go beyond the mere recognition of the illegality of such acts. it must also consider the macroprudential risks associated with the manipulation of widely—used benchmarks. indeed, the continued extensive use of a limited number of very large benchmarks, even where the vulnerabilities and flaws of these benchmarks are known or suspected, underlines the importance of some benchmarks to the smooth functioning and stability of financial, commodities and other markets, as well as to the wider economy. these systemic considerations warrant and require additional legislative action, at least for the more widely-used benchmarks, to improve governance arrangements and mitigate conflicts of interest as well as other weaknesses.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the new rules will contribute to the accuracy and integrity of benchmarks used in financial instruments and financial contracts by ensuring that contributors to benchmarks are subject to prior authorisation and ongoing supervision depending on the type of benchmark.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out new rules to promote the accuracy and integrity of benchmarks used in financial instruments and financial contracts.
madam president, it is deeply disappointing that we are nowhere near achieving the millennium development goals, and many member states are failing to provide as little as 0.7 % of their gni to development assistance. i do believe it is high time that member states stepped up their game. the costs in terms of human lives, as in terms of budget, will be much lower than what we are faced with when dealing with people fleeing poverty and the wars that poverty creates. if the new york summit in september is to come up with an agenda that is both stronger and more effective, we need a solid common position in the addis ababa high-level conference in july, with all the member states speaking on one line, to the same tune. so this also means that we need to take real action to help developing countries raise their own resources and adopt policies that actually allow these countries to pick themselves up.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on financing for development. there were positive aspects in this report, such as calling on high-income countries to contribute more to development, plus a need for greater transparency in the eu budget in terms of financing for development. most importantly, the report deals with the role of women in development and strongly supports the principle of gender equality as it places this at the core of development activities. it targets investment in key sectors such as health and education, ensuring all development finances take full account of the situation of women and girls. while sinn fein does not support extending the 1967 abortion act to the north of ireland, we do support sexual and reproductive health and rights, as they cover a wide range of social, economic, cultural, civic, political and other rights.
i wrote it. there is a lot of confusion about the way in which the laws are being applied in the richer countries to finance development, and there is a need to clarify the more simple way in which the european union finances development. you should welcome him to these things. it is without doubt, an important thing about it and i think it is very important that women are involved in the development. it gives an idea of the support of the championannas incinerator. it is therefore essential that the commission and the member states take the necessary measures to ensure that the measures adopted by the member states are effective and proportionate. it is without doubt a key investment in such important areas as health and education, for example. the commission should also pay particular attention to the health of women and girls. it involves a wide range of things like care reimhbhreithe agus iarbhreithe, frithghiniúint agus galar gnéas -tarchurtha-rudaí that are thar to be important. because of the things above, i've had to vote and i'll have to kill you.
in writing. ‒ mr president, events of recent months in nepal and the waters of the eastern mediterranean have reiterated the need for national governments in the eu to play a fair but effective role in supporting people living in poverty and disadvantage in less—developed countries across the world. there is, of course, a balance to be struck. combating poverty among our own citizens is not a selfish aim, and this should be prioritised. however, there is also a time to step back, reflect on the generally high standard of living that we enjoy, and commit to helping those less fortunate than the majority of our citizens. this report calls on member state to recommit to the 0.7% figure of gni to development aid. this is a commitment that the uk’s national parliament supported in a vote earlier this year. we must take these matters seriously. however it also important to ensure that the allocation of this money is targeted, credible and based on identified need, in order to render it effective and conducive not only to supporting the end of poverty in the short term, but to equipping societies with the means to ensure lasting economic prosperity.
in writing. ‒ the report represents an important contribution by the ep to the position of the eu in july’s high-level international conference on financing for development (ffd) in addis ababa (ethiopia), which is to create the necessary conditions for financing and implementing the post-2015 agenda for sustainable development goals (sdgs). it calls on the member states to recommit to their oda target of 0.7% of gross national income (gni) by 2020; it urges the commission to enhance its capacity—building assistance in the area of tax administration, public financial management and anti-corruption measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by a large majority. ahead of the third international conference on financing for development, being held this july in addis ababa, it calls for 0.7% of gni to be recommitted to development aid, despite many member states being reluctant to do so. it also calls for the establishment of an intergovernmental body on tax matters, under the auspices of the united nations, as well as international corporate tax rules including the principle that taxes should be paid where value is extracted or created. my constituents in wales feel strongly about fair taxation, tax justice and countering tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, voted in favour of this report because labour has led the way for a progressive development policy to tackle poverty and inequality across the world. the labour party’s efforts led to a uk law to commit 0.7% of national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda). now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing. ‒ this report is right to reiterate the call for member states to commit to 0.7% of gni to be spent on international aid. my party has committed to this target being enshrined in law in an independent scotland and will continue to argue for it within the context of the uk.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the report. we need to find international solutions to finance development and negotiate a new framework of development goals. the labour party’s efforts led to a uk law to commit 0.7% of national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda). now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030. the eu must continue to make sure that development aid is more effective and better coordinated.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which insists that the eu and its member states should maintain their position as major donors of development aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour has led the way for a progressive development policy to tackle poverty and inequality across the world. the labour party’s efforts led to a uk law to commit 0.7% of national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda). now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing. ‒ labour has led the way for a progressive development policy to tackle poverty and inequality across the world. the labour party’s efforts led to a uk law to commit 0.7% of national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda). now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i am proud of the uk labour party’s efforts in promoting a progressive development policy to tackle poverty and inequality across the world. therefore, i strongly supported this report which urges the rest of the union to take similar action. by mobilising a range of finance, member states can make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because labour has led the way for a progressive development policy to tackle poverty and inequality across the world. the labour party’s efforts led to a uk law to commit 0.7% of national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda). now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am a member of labour campaign for international development (lcid) and labour has led the way for a progressive development policy to tackle poverty and inequality across the world. the labour party’s efforts led to a uk law to commit 0.7% of national income (gni) to official development assistance (oda). now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
madam president, i supported the report on safer healthcare in europe. it is of concern that around 10% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu suffer from adverse events while receiving healthcare. at the same time we have to recognise that antibiotic resistance is growing. this means that about 4.1 million people are suffering from healthcare-related illness, which causes huge personal distress and also a significant cost. the good news is that 30% of these illnesses can be avoided and the eu can play a crucial role in helping us achieve this, alleviating the burden placed on national health systems, which are already ailing in many eu member states, not least the uk. i therefore call on the commission to promote the development of new antibiotics and regulate their use. above all, it is crucial to realise that diseases do not stop at borders. here the eu has the ability to achieve results that the single member state cannot. so we have to ask the commission to fully exploit this potential by developing initiatives to ensure better monitoring and data collection for healthcare-associated infections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i welcome in particular that this report has highlighted the very serious issue of antimicrobial resistance, which is on the increase and is having worrying impacts on patients’ health across europe. it is estimated that 10 million people will die every year in the world by 2050 because of this phenomenon. it is essential that serious efforts be undertaken now to halt the epidemic. this report is a timely reminder for the need for a coordinated approach to fighting antimicrobial resistance, in line with the one health approach recommended by the world health organisation. it is also to be welcomed that the report highlights the negative effects austerity has had on member states’ healthcare systems.
in writing. ‒ the uk has introduced its own legislation on these issues, which is working well enough. the concern about harmonisation, other than the obvious subsidiarity issue, is that it could potentially lead to lower standards in the uk – in particular regarding antibiotics in animal feed. nevertheless, i recognise the issues around antibiotics. the report fails to address some of the structural issues regarding reasons why pharmaceutical companies have done insufficient research in these areas.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report seeks to establish the best practices and measures which member states could implement in order to tackle the growing problems of healthcare associated infections (hais) and anti-microbial resistance (amr) in the eu. there are many aspects of this report which the ecr is happy to support. we support the recognition of the role of vaccination, which can limit the use of antibiotics and the development of antimicrobial resistance. the report also endorses the ‘one health’ concept as outlined by the world health organisation, recognising that human and animal health and ecosystems are interconnected, and that policies should be devised accordingly. furthermore, we strongly back a call for greater incentives for public and private sector cooperation to reinvigorate antibiotic development r&d.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on safer healthcare in europe. it included a reference to targets for reducing the use of antibiotics and criticised high-intensity farming. with the decreasing effectiveness of antibiotics, it is important that we encourage responsible use and develop alternatives for both human and animal use. this is a very important issue for the health of the citizens of wales.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee for environment, public health and food safety, i am acutely aware of the need for a coordinated approach for controlling healthcare associated infections (hais) and antimicrobial resistance (amr). i am pleased to see that this report calls for cooperation on a european level as well as antibiotic research and development. i welcome the inclusion in the report of continuous training for healthcare professionals, as preventing the spread of infection is more effective than curing it. the conservative party acknowledges that although healthcare should in principal remain a member state competence there are some areas that require international cooperation, particularly in this field, so i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, voted in favour of this report because it calls for action to improve patient safety and fight antimicrobial resistance, and to ease the burden this places on overstretched health systems.
in writing. ‒ hospital-acquired infections in scotland are currently at an all-time low thanks to concerted efforts by both government and healthcare staff. this has been brought about within the context of a publicly owned nhs and my party will continue to reject the privatisation of healthcare, where private profit comes before cleanliness and good health.
in writing. ‒ ukip meps voted against this report as we feel it attempts to harmonise laws to the detriment of uk patients, uk companies and the uk health environment. the uk already has an excellent regime for regulating resistance to antibiotics, and we fear an eu scheme would undermine this via harmonisation. this regime is under constant and regular update, and only recently the uk chief medical officer has initiated future requirements that would benefit the uk. this latest eu interference would put public health at risk, putting the emphasis on eu harmonisation before that of good medical practice, which is unacceptable to ukip meps. a uk independent of the eu would work with the who and other international public health and government health bodies, as we feel they have a relevant legitimacy lacking of the eu. ukip meps feel any developments in this field should be science—led, with the consultation and collaboration of parties directly impacted by any proposed changes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report. there has been a worrying increase in healthcare associated infections and antibiotic resistance, with available figures suggesting 8-12% of hospital patients suffer harm or adverse events, of which 20-30% could be prevented. the eu must take action on different levels to greatly reduce health—related infections, which are putting an enormous strain on healthcare systems.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report and believe that the following areas of action should be tackled as a matter of priority: – careful use of the antibiotics available (in human and veterinary medicine), that is to say, only when an appropriate prescription (specifying the dosage, dosage intervals, and duration of the treatment) states that they are necessary;– national and cross-border measures to limit the movement of patients infected with resistant bacteria;– hygiene precautions to control the transmission of resistant strains between infected persons, including hand hygiene, screening for the transport of strains, and isolation of patients suffering from infections caused by resistant bacteria;– research and development focusing on antibiotics, with new ways of proceeding and new approaches to alternative treatments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it signals a call for action to improve patient safety and fight antimicrobial resistance, to ease the burden this places on overstretched health systems.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this report as we feel it attempts to harmonise laws. we feel the uk already has an excellent regime for regulating resistance to antibiotics, and fear an eu scheme would undercut this via harmonisation. this would put public health at risk, which is unacceptable to us. a uk independent of the eu would work with the who and other international bodies, as we feel they have a legitimacy the eu does not. we feel any developments in this field should be science—led, with the consultation of parties which are impacted by any changes
in writing. ‒ labour meps today voted to call for action to improve patient safety and fight antimicrobial resistance, and ease the burden this places on overstretched health systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it urges member states to improve patient safety and fight antimicrobial resistance, as well as easing the burden this places on overstretched health systems.
in writing. ‒ i welcome a large number of the recommendations made in this report to improve patient safety and address the crucial issue of amr. in particular, the need for a greater emphasis on training all staff in infection prevention and control highlighted in this report: a comprehensive and team approach will ensure consistent good practices in infection prevention and control are present throughout our healthcare systems. the report also rightly emphasises the growing gap between increasing antimicrobial resistance and the development of new antibiotics. i welcome calls to accelerate r&d activities in the field of antimicrobial medicines and to create greater incentives for public and private sector collaboration. finally, the ʽone healthʼ approach to amr is essential given that our human and animal health systems are interconnected and tackling amr requires a cross-sector approach, with policies developed accordingly. we must however ensure that any future action to address the risks of amr developing in animals is based on sound scientific evidence and expert advice.
in writing. ‒ my european parliament labour party colleagues and i voted in favour of this report because it calls for action to improve patient safety and fight antimicrobial resistance, to ease the burden this places on overstretched health systems.
in writing. ‒ this report is the european parliament’s response to a commission report evaluating how member states have implemented recommendations to improve patient safety and prevent healthcare associated infections (hais). it calls for member states to take further action to ensure adequate funding, better monitoring of hais and on-going training for healthcare professionals to reduce infection rates. the report also encourages responsible use of antibiotics, and calls on member states to highlight the dangers of antibiotic resistance. labour meps voted for this report because it calls for action to improve patient safety and fight antimicrobial resistance, to ease the burden this places on overstretched health systems.
madam president, not only is it important that we address the issue of financing for smes, but also that we help them cut the cost of going green. in my region, the west midlands, eu funding has been instrumental in driving forward the development of our region into one of the largest low-carbon environmental goods and services sectors, in terms of sales, in the uk. so it is imperative that we continue to build on this effort, given that nearly half of the smes in my region indicate that they are still struggling to access finance for these types of initiatives. there is a real job of work to be done here. crucial in getting my support for this were the points that were championed by my group, namely including making sure that proper attention is given to micro—enterprises and start-ups, and tapping the full potential of funds by establishing industrial synergies, symbioses and clusters. we owe it to our smes to use the means at our disposal in the most efficient way possible. that is why i think it is a missed opportunity that this report stops short of offering concrete initiatives on these points.
madam president, this is really where you see the racket exposed, this idea of defending green policies in economic terms. if you wanted to say: ‘there is a price to be paid for ecological goals, we should be prepared to suffer slower growth in order to slow global warming’, that is fine and that is a perfectly reasonable argument with good and sincere people on both sides. but to say that this will, of itself, stimulate the economy is such a basic economic fallacy that i do not really believe the proponents believe it themselves. it is the exact equivalent of arguing that if the government employed more people, that would create more jobs and therefore they would pay more tax and therefore the economy would grow. it was tried in the soviet system and we all saw where it led. the reason it does not work is because of what frédéric bastiat calls the theory of seen and unseen costs. you are always taking more out of the economy to create these jobs than they can ever put back into it. the reality is that it is the other way round. it is not the green policies that create the growth. it is the growth that creates the green policies. we have cleaner air and water in developed countries because we can afford it. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure as i believe that this should be a matter for national parliaments not the european union.
in writing. ‒ while i would air caution against focusing efforts at solely green smes, i do welcome the emphasis given in this report to removing much of the unnecessary, burdensome regulation – which is often gold-plated – that acts as a market barrier for all small and medium—sized enterprises. the reality is that the green sector presents great economic opportunities. this cannot be denied. renewable energy production and storage technologies are coming more and more to the fore. it is right that smes that share this focus are afforded the capacity to get involved in research and innovation, as well as to access finance that is all important yet often so difficult for small businesses to gain. while i would urge the uk government to take primary responsibility for making the market a more hospitable place for these enterprises, i also believe that the eu, particularly through the latest round of structural and cohesion funds, can play a pivotal role in providing smes with substantive opportunities to nurture and grow. this is especially important in my constituency, northern ireland, given the potential presented for projects to extend across our unique land border with the republic of ireland.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the opportunities arising from ‘green growth’ and the circular economy, in particular from renewable energy, energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction and electrification. it underlines that the global market for environmental goods and services is worth eur 1 000 billion per year, and it is estimated that this amount will double or even triple by 2020. a strong emphasis is put on the challenges which face smes in the fields of financing, research and development, the legislative burden and enhancing cross-board cooperation in relation to green growth. notably, it calls on member states to use market-based instruments in their public support schemes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. i do not believe that deregulation and the dismantling of european social and environmental standards are in the interests of my constituents in wales. i do not agree that legislation is a barrier for green growth. i have long called for cutting unnecessary and cumbersome red tape, because it is important to my constituents in wales that the european union is as effective, accountable, and efficient as possible. however, these proposals will not do that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the de backer report on green growth opportunities for smes. i support much of the content, in particular its pro-business and competitiveness focus and its calls for the commission to refrain from introducing proposals that would lead to unnecessary burdens for enterprises.
in writing. ‒ comprehensive measures are needed for the eu to achieve its climate change targets, and i am pleased to see smes being considered as part of these measures. green growth and smes are vital for future innovation and economic prosperity in light of the depletion of natural resources and climate change itself. with improved regulation being of considerable importance to smes, i am also pleased to see that these proposals are business focused. the conservative party always champions small businesses whilst striving to conserve and protect the environment.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my s&d colleagues, voted in favour of this report because the s&d group managed to include micro-enterprises and start-ups in the report and ensure that these businesses are covered by new initiatives focusing on green growth. the s&d group also ensured that industrial synergies, symbioses and clusters are promoted within the text.
in writing. ‒ the scottish government has committed to scotland being a global leader in developing a circular economy, and smes play a vital role in forwarding that agenda. nonetheless, i do not consider that regulation per se is a barrier to achieving a circular economy and i could not therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. although i would like to have seen it more ambitious, i am happy the s&d group managed to include micro-enterprises and start-ups in the report and ensure that these businesses are covered by new initiatives focusing on green growth. our group also ensured that the commission is encouraged to come forward with concrete initiatives on cross-sectoral cooperation and resource management.
in writing. ‒ green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu, and are estimated to grow considerably in the coming years. the starting point is that this economic growth can go hand in hand with environmental sustainability. smes are the backbone of the european economy and are important drivers for economic growth and job creation. it is important that policy makers fully understand the potential of the green economy, while at the same time being aware of the difficulties that smes currently face, in particular regarding the greening of their products, production processes, business practices and services. the commission’s green action plan for smes is a welcome initiative to further stimulate smes to develop the benefits of green growth.
in writing. ‒ i believe that overall the report could have been more ambitious, as the text focuses heavily on issues related to financing for smes and not enough attention is devoted to concrete initiatives for further sustainability, resource efficiency, energy efficiency and the circular economy. however my colleagues in the s&d group managed to include micro—enterprises and start-ups in the report and ensure that these businesses are covered by new initiatives focusing on green growth. in addition, the s&d group also ensured that industrial synergies, symbioses and clusters are promoted within the text. finally, the s&d group ensured that the commission is encouraged to come forward with concrete initiatives on cross-sectoral cooperation and resource management.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps voted in support of this report as green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu, and are estimated to grow considerably in the coming years. the starting point is that this economic growth can go hand in hand with environmental sustainability. smes are the backbone of the european economy and are important drivers for economic growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on green growth opportunities for smes, which will have a positive impact on businesses across the european union.
in writing. ‒ with my s&d and eplp colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because the s&d group managed to include micro-enterprises and start-ups in the report and ensure that these businesses are covered by new initiatives focusing on green growth. the s&d group also ensured that industrial synergies, symbioses and clusters are promoted within the text.
in writing. ‒ with my s&d and eplp colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because the s&d group managed to include micro-enterprises (e.g. social enterprises) and start-ups in the report and ensure that these businesses are covered by new initiatives focusing on green growth. the s&d group also ensured that industrial synergies, symbioses and clusters are promoted within the text.
madam president, mention of the csdp invariably leads to a heated discussion of national sovereignty, particularly in my country the uk, which is a major military power. such debate is, of course, legitimate considering the importance of defence and sovereignty. we must not let ideology blind us to the potential benefits of the csdp and should instead seek to take a more pragmatic approach. i have always argued that the csdp must not be pursued to the detriment of nato by causing duplication of effort or the decoupling of european defence from that of the united states or canada – rather it should be developed as a complementary alternative in scenarios for which nato is ill-suited. for instance, the successful anti-piracy eunavfor atalanta naval mission was able to coordinate with the indian navy which, as a non-aligned movement country, was unable to contribute meaningfully to natoʼs operation ocean shield, also in the indian ocean. this is one example where csdp can offer real added value without, of course, undermining nato. but defence resources are scarce in the climate of austerity today, so smart defence and pooling and sharing are great ideas, but ultimately, our priority is for every eu member state to spend 2% of their national budgets on defence.
madam president, i would like firstly to thank my colleague, geoffrey van orden, who has important defence meetings today, for his tireless work opposing an eu single army. regrettably, the reports on integrating defence policy and defence industries seek again to invent eu defence roles that are not wanted and not desirable. yesterday’s council agreed ambitious operations in the mediterranean. of course, it is right to make every effort to save lives, but the question is what are the consequences of such well-intentioned but flawed measures. certainly they will not end mass migration. for that you may need an australian approach: they turn boats around after giving them food, water and ensuring they will not sink. they went from 800 boats and 50 000 migrants a year to zero now. but in the light of what was agreed there are two major questions: firstly, why was the major nato joint force headquarters at naples – already very well equipped for operations in the mediterranean – not involved? why must the eu always duplicate and undermine nato? secondly, what is the cost of this duplication and who will pay?
blue-card question. – are you seriously suggesting, sir, that the security of continental europe is at stake if it is left in the hands of nato, as opposed to this move for a common security and defence policy?
madam president, common security and defence policy plays an important role in realising eu international security goals. to date, we have not realised its full potential. the eu has never before faced such a convergence of security crises on its doorstep. therefore, the csdp needs to be improved to enable europeans to shoulder their international security responsibilities more effectively. although defence policy remains a matter of national sovereignty, we can make european defence more efficient through european solidarity. the future of european defence is to have the real capability to prevent and respond to crises as part of a comprehensive and bold eu strategy: a strategy that comprises diplomatic, development, humanitarian and defence expertise; a strategy that applies to all phases of the conflict cycle – preventing, managing and stabilising; and a strategy that is done in tandem with other partners, having a complementary and mutually reinforcing role. they should not be in competition with each other. let us work together for a safer europe.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, as members of the european union we have signed up to a core set of democratic principles and rights. the members of this house are entitled to all kinds of varied and many opinions, political and ideological beliefs. this house is a platform for examination, for debate and – we hope sometimes – for solutions. but when did this parliament become judge, jury and executioner for those who held a point of view different to their own? you can dress this debate up as being about protecting fundamental rights; you can claim it is about helping internal monitoring of the application of the treaties, but the request for this debate is what it is: the left of this parliament is taking another swipe at the centre right because some member states dare to talk about issues which concern their own electorate. member states have a right to debate issues, even issues not included on the list of pre-approved topics of certain people in this room, mr pittella. and why does this parliament always have to present its arguments as a standoff between the european parliament and one of its member states? this tarnishes the reputation of the member states and of this parliament. here in the european union we are meant to be each other’s partners, not each other’s keepers. the people of hungary and the people of europe do not want to see important issues related to fundamental rights and the rule of law reduced simply to another opportunity for political point-scoring in this chamber. conversations are taking place between the hungarian government and the commission, as is proper. a debate has been held in our justice and home affairs committee, and much discussion takes place – again quite rightly – in this forum. but i asked myself, in this context, why are we here today? why are we holding this debate? this is a debate, mr president, which does no-one any favours. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – at the end of the day, sir, that is a matter for me and that is a matter for the electorate of my country, in the same way as it is a matter for the electorate in hungary, and they have spoken clearly enough about whether they approve of the leader they have.
blue-card question.– i was very interested by your blanket rejection of the death penalty within the eu – it is just totally rejected. does that mean that you do not believe in a full democracy? what if a parliament voted, reflecting the will of the people, to restore the death penalty in a completely fair and democratic election – would you still say that it should not be allowed within the eu?
mr president, i have been in politics for quite a long time, and there are two things that i have always believed in – and still believe in – passionately. one is freedom of expression. the second is freedom for those people who live in countries like hungary to be able to make their own decisions as to what government they wish to have to govern them. i have heard nothing this evening that has really changed that view. i do not like the rhetoric that we have heard, particularly from the left-wing representatives. i would like to conclude my remarks by alluding to mr verhofstadt's remark just a moment ago. he says it is time to conclude the debate on hungary. i have to say clearly to mr verhofstadt that we should never have started this debate in the first place.
rapporteur.– madam president, with anti-money laundering, if you cut off the flow in money, you cut off the long reach of criminal groups and terrorists and help better protect the stability of our economy as a whole and individuals in it. the damage that money laundering can cause should never be underestimated. where criminal activity in our economic markets is concerned, transparency is a powerful weapon. therefore, the opportunity presented to myself, my fellow rapporteurs and shadows to right the wrongs of past legislation has been both a challenge and a privilege. throughout the process, we have looked at international standards, at fatf, and at the need to combat money laundering beyond the borders of the eu and in full cooperation with the rest of the world. the ability to follow money across borders and seize back assets is important, and so is the space in which criminals are able to operate. i believe that this package will help both to diminish that space for criminals and also to assist us in our ability to follow the money across those borders. for years, both consumers and businesses have run into difficulties with implementing previous legislation on this subject. our aim has been to create, this time, a sensible, proportionate and effective way forward in the fight against money laundering. i have to say that the second anti—money laundering directive – with which i and others here were concerned – was interpreted ultimately and implemented in my own country, in the uk, in a way that made life almost intolerable for small investors and those who desired a normal, balanced relationship with their financial institutions. this kind of undue burden must not be recreated with an even tougher new regime. the need to create fuller transparency, balanced with considering the wider impact upon privacy and the need to provide data protection, has also been a key element of our work. the terms ‘proportionality’ and ‘necessity’ are brought up time and time again in our work here in parliament, never more relevantly than in our work on this package. previous directives have had the effect of providing an excuse, sometimes, for institutions, including banks and building societies, to move their decision-making further away from their consumers and to introduce totally proscriptive and impractical ways of assessing customers. businesses and financial services need to know what they are looking for and how to address the problem. there needs to be an effective reporting and supervisory system, but equally countries need to comply with, and not just sign up to, international principles and methods, as well as to ensure good cooperation with third countries. if businesses and our trading partners around the world are going to continue to invest in europe, and if the single market is to grow and prosper, it is essential we have the right legislative tools and european cooperation in place in order to prevent and prosecute financial crime. above all else, i hope we have delivered something which is consistent and workable here. for me the ability to effectively implement the package was at the forefront of my mind when i was dealing with the section that i was responsible for. you can have the best laws in the world, but if they are not well implemented, you gain nothing. i now believe, thanks to this package, we will be gaining a lot. i would like finally to thank all those involved as far as my work is concerned: my co-shadow mr simons, the shadow rapporteurs and the other co-rapporteurs. i hope that the vote tomorrow is the start of a new era in the fight against money laundering, using common sense, but also bringing public acceptance at the same time.
rapporteur.– mr president, it has been a most interesting debate. i thank the commissioner particularly for her comments both at the beginning and after the debate. i would just like to point out that my primary aim in my part of this has been to try and get the fourth anti—money laundering directive just about right. i heard some concerns and if i may just say on the issue of trusts and wills: trusts and wills contain some of the most private and personal information that there is about a person, and we are a parliament that respects data privacy, hence disclosure for trusts has to be proportionate within our proposals. new payment methods are emerging every day with increasingly sophisticated technological capabilities by criminals, individuals and groups in the digital and in the cyber world, as has been expressed by a number of people. we do indeed face a very tough challenge, but i think we have dealt with most of the concerns. i think we have found workable solutions and addressed concerns generally. so i want to again express my thanks to all those involved and i hope that we will have a successful outcome in the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, it is no coincidence that the safety and health at work of pregnant workers, those who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, has become known as the maternity leave directive. this is no mere linguistic convenience. this directive has been hijacked by the issue of 20 weeks’ maternity leave on full pay and paternal paid leave. this has been consistently opposed by a significant minority of member states, and in my opinion quite rightly. this is opposed on grounds of subsidiarity, and now it is time for the commission to stick to its word and withdraw it. this whole saga has left the european parliament looking foolish and this oral question simply emphasises that point. perhaps if the european parliament had agreed to the original proposal along the lines of the international labour office’s maternal protection recommendation, better conditions for women could have been achieved five years ago. it is the stubbornness of many members that has led to no progress for over five years, so i encourage the commission to take this off the table and end this monumental waste of time. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– presumably the question (if i understood correctly) is about my understanding of the directive. there was no actual question there, but let me say this: it is absolutely clear that this recast proposal has eaten away at member states’ sovereignty, has eaten away at subsidiarity, and has taken on itself to try to do far more than was, and is, currently sensible for legislation at european level. there is no question in my mind, or indeed in my group’s mind, that maternity leave is extremely important. there is no question that the rights of women should be upheld. the question is whether this is the right place to do it, and whether this proposal, with its absolute demands and with no flexibility, is the right approach.
mr president, i want to return to the behaviour of the council, which has been quite appalling in this instance. it has been over five years, as previous speakers have said, since this directive went through the european parliament. we, and a majority of the house, passed this, and the council has quite simply ignored it; they have blocked it. there has been a very significant minority that has blocked the directive. one has to ask oneself why? why has this been going on? why have there been enough member states to delay this for five years? the only conclusion one can sensibly come to is that there are members of the council – member states – who do not want this legislation, who do not want gender equality and who do not want to see pregnant women protected at work. this is not only unacceptable, as a point of view, it is actually very short-sighted, because the directive would allow women to enter the labour market, would boost our economic performance and would be very beneficial indeed for the whole of the european union.
mr president, people with disabilities campaigned for this convention, so they need to be included in monitoring and implementation. this resolution calls for the commission formally to consult all relevant bodies, including parliament, in its response to the convention committee. now, more than ever, this inclusive approach is vital. the economic crisis and cuts to services have caused deterioration in the rights and independence of people with disabilities. organisations caring for people with a learning disability, such as destined, in derry, are carrying out hugely valuable work in difficult circumstances. in carlow and kilkenny only 27% of people with a disability are at work, and people with disabilities are much more likely to live in poverty. the situation is worsening due to irish enforced austerity and british tory cuts. proper implementation of this convention can bring about a dramatic improvement in the lives of millions, and that is why we need to get this process right.
blue-card question.– mr weber, my question is this: do you not realise that the kind of intervention you made at the start of your speech is exactly why ukip’s vote trebled in the elections in the uk. four million people do not want this kind of intervention from people from the outside, like you, talking about our domestic issues, telling us – and i will be more pertinent to this discussion than you were – about what kind of immigration we can have, what we can do with our own borders, and then intervening in our own domestic politics and spending a minute and a half of your own time poking fun at us. they do not want that. four million people said: sorry, mr weber, go away!
mr president, this is a point of order. irrespective of the emotions and the response across the chamber with regards to these comments from mr weber, he started his speech saying: i am prepared to sacrifice a minute of my speaking time to speak on the british domestic general election. and yet, mr president, with respect, you allowed him to speak for a minute over his allocated speaking time. so how did he sacrifice any speaking time?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, in saving lives, addressing the criminality of human trafficking and stabilising the euʼs external borders through cooperation are vital factors. we have a moral duty to assist one another, but i do not believe that this assistance should undermine the key international principle of humanitarian and asylum law: that an individual should be able to seek sanctuary in the first safe country reached. true solidarity is offering assistance because it is the right thing to do – not through compulsion. i do not believe that quotas and forced relocation are sustainable, democratic or fair to the individuals in question. it is a mistake to have a strategy which addresses all kinds of migration in one document. economic migration and asylum are two very different issues, with separate challenges, and this joint strategy blurs lines which should be clear. we do agree on the important role of frontex, easo, returns and eurodac, and the need for increased funding in tackling the issue at source, and we look forward to working with the commission on this important issue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– we are very lucky to have mr kirkhope here because he has been a minister with responsibility for immigration in a british conservative government. mr kirkhope, could you explain, for the benefit of others, the difference between having a conservative immigration minister back in the council and one from some of the other parties that might perhaps have been there?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i wonder whether that is a hostile question; i think perhaps it is not. my reaction to it is that i am very proud of what i did when i was immigration minister; i am proud of the fact that we have a conservative government. i am also proud of the fact that it is a government which deals with immigration issues by mixing humanitarian approaches with responsibility and security. were we to have seen a different outcome in our elections recently, with any need to concur with some of the more extreme views that certain parties have expressed, i would be a very disappointed man, and it would not help those who sought sanctuary or those who wish to deal with immigration rules for their benefit.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would like to extend huge thanks all of those who have welcomed me back to this institution so warmly. i do detect, however, in some of the smiles and laughter directed at me, a slight hint of nervousness – and so there jolly well should be because there is going to be a british referendum on whether we stay in or whether we leave this european union. for the first time in many decades there will be a fundamental debate on the existence of this union and the need for it in the modern world. i have to say that this referendum would not have happened without ukip and its people’s army of millions of supporters. it is pretty clear that, actually, when it comes to renegotiation, nothing substantial can be achieved, because already all the big bosses in europe have said that the freedom-of-movement rules are not up for negotiation and that there will be no treaty change on this point. that, for us, is simply not good enough, and it goes to the heart of the debate this morning. what we want in britain is an australian-style points system so that we can choose who comes to live, work and settle in our countries. i would bet that, if such a proposal were put to all of your electorates in your member states, they too would opt for that policy. a month ago i warned mr timmermans that the common eu asylum policy had absolutely no security checks whatsoever and that there was a genuine threat of isis using this policy to infiltrate our countries and to pose great threats to our society. i was laughed at out loud here. people said i had no evidence for it. well, now even the libyan intelligence agencies are saying that isis are not only making money from trafficking people but are also beginning to send us their terrorists directly. we need to have another think. we must not allow our compassion to imperil our security. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
mr president, civil war, deprivation and astounding levels of poverty have driven thousands of migrants to risk their lives crossing the mediterranean to the eu. traffickers and smugglers have willingly exploited the desperation of those fleeing their homes. as a result, many have perished. some argue that military action targeting and destroying smugglers’ boats, despite the threat to migrants’ lives, will solve the problem. bonkers! it is clear that military intervention in the middle east and north africa has only exacerbated social, economic and ethnic tensions in the region. military intervention in iraq and libya have created both the conditions for further conflict from which people flee and the instability that allows smugglers and traffickers to operate with relative impunity. we need, without doubt, a humanitarian approach to deal with the horror of the floating cemetery that the mediterranean has become. we do not need the ‘search and destroy’ operation that is being advocated. we need eu governments to increase the number of resettlement places, humanitarian admissions and visas for people in need of international protection. finally, i want to distance myself and our group from the shameful behaviour of some of the meps in this chamber this morning who play political football with this issue which is, without doubt, one of the most disturbing issues that we have had to deal with. shame on each and every one of you.
mr president, i can agree with much of what has just been said. i would also like to remind people that, over the years, this parliament has called for solidarity between member states. we have called for the implementation, in a consistent and high-quality way, of a common asylum system and we have called for a common migration policy. i think we are still waiting for a lot of our member states to actually catch up with those realities. i also want to stress that, when we are looking at putting in place hotspot teams from the european asylum support office (easo), and when we are looking at a number of those things, the resources need to follow those commitments. i also welcome the temporary relocation plans and the settlement places. i am really, really upset that my own country is not willing to participate and not willing to step up on this occasion. if we are talking about a holistic system, can we please recognise that measures can be simultaneous, not sequential, and that migration is part of development, not a substitute for it.
mr president, in a very interesting development last week, one member of the college of commissioners said that one member of the council perhaps should have read the press statement in its entirety before commenting. i can say this, but perhaps the commissioner cannot. what he was saying was that before making any pronouncements we should understand the commission is in very difficult circumstances. while people are dying in the mediterranean and while we are asking for action, we must understand also that the commission talked about the causes. many people are asking: why do we not talk about the causes? in fact they mention the causes. it is for us as politicians to convince our citizens that we will talk about the causes; we will talk about all of our citizens and we will do something in the mediterranean and not let people die. but we will also talk about many of the mechanisms, which we have talked about before. jean lambert said that we had created an asylum system; all of us here have legislated on this, but we have not implemented it. therefore, let us turn our fire to where it should be: on the council. here we have a commission proposal which is comprehensive. but we have a choice. there is a low political priority of the tough choices, a resettlement. let us have some perspective. many of our colleagues on the other side of the house talk about australia, a country which last year resettled 200 000 migrants and 14 000 refugees. we are talking about 20 000. so, perspective. regarding humanity, thousands of people are dying in the mediterranean, let us rescue them. regarding the long-term: let us try to ensure that the council has a high priority on the tough decisions and perhaps a little lower priority on the more easy media shots. that is what we need to do in this parliament. let us get on with it and work in partnership.
in writing.– the european union’s agenda on migration is that it should continue unabated under the open borders policy. on 7 may the british people voted into power a conservative government. what that guarantees is that unlimited and uncontrolled immigration will continue – as indeed it would if they had elected a labour government. the conservative and labour parties are committed to keeping the open borders policy, and for more countries to join the eu, such as turkey with a population of 75 million people. it is totally dishonest of the tories to talk about controlling immigration and at the same time to support more countries joining the eu. it will not be long before the voters regret their decision.
mr president, on a point of order, i was under the impression that political posters were not allowed in the chamber but, when consulting the rule book, i could not actually find it. i notice that the other side of the chamber is festooned with signs. my eyesight is not good enough to read them from here, but i presume they are of a political nature and therefore i assume that it is ok to display posters of a political nature. so i have therefore written my own hasty poster – ‘vote ukip’– which i will put here. if it is ok to display political posters i will bring a proper one next time and display it permanently in order to elicit votes from the electorate... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we are all familiar with the arguments against this monthly peregrination between brussels and strasbourg. i am not planning to rehearse them again. i would rather hold up this meeting here as a symbol of the immobilism – the resistance to change – that all bureaucracies evolve over time. in fact, if you want a perfect physical symbol of what milton friedman calls the tyranny of the status quo, think of the trunks outside our offices. they date from a pre—e—mail age when it was necessary to move paperwork back and forth. why do we still have them? because an industry has grown up around their transportation: the lorry drivers, the removal men, and so on. what we see is that the european union exists primarily for the benefit of its own employees, and that is why it is, in practice, impossible for a government fundamentally to reform the deal in brussels. this is the classic tyranny of the status quo: it is why the british government is making such paltry and unambitious demands. we know that, whatever we say, whatever our citizens believe, the system will continue to exist for the benefit of those lucky enough to be employed by it.
in writing. ‒ i would like to place on record that i oppose the monthly journeys from brussels to strasbourg and back, at a massive cost to the taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ we voted to approve parliament’s calendar of part-sessions for 2016.
in writing. ‒ believing that the uk should negotiate its own trade deals, ukip meps customarily vote against such matters.
in writing. ‒ the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdca) between the eu and south africa was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and revised in kleinmond in south africa on 11 september 2009. the revised agreement from 2009 inserted the new provisions on development, in particular as regards combating poverty, aid effectiveness, the millennium development goals and the link between migration and development. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia acceded to the eu. the proposed council decision aims to approve, on behalf of the eu and its member states, the additional protocol to the eu-south africa tdca taking account of croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stier report, given that it simply concerns a codification to take into account the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposed council decision aims to approve the additional protocol to the eu south africa tdca taking into account croatia’s accession to the eu. i voted in favour of this technical adjustment to take note of croatia’s accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it is of a technical, not a political, nature that takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report on the decision incorporating croatia into the eu trade agreement with south africa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the changes to the agreement are minor and technical – for example to include croatian as one of the languages into which documents should be translated. the agreement also establishes a regular political dialogue on issues of mutual interest at both bilateral and regional level (as part of the eu’s dialogue with the countries of southern africa and the acp group of countries).
in writing. ‒ parliament consented to the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give consent on this report, which includes the accession of croatia in the eu’s trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the anti-money laundering directive, given that it provides a crucial tool in the fight against tax avoidance and fraud, and can play a vital role in cutting off a funding stream to terrorists. therefore, the more transparency we can have, the better. by setting up public registers we increase transparency on the financial flux. however, as the recent tax scandals show, we remain heavily dependent on the action of whistleblowers working in the business, so we need to convince these whistleblowers to reveal cases of tax avoidance and tax fraud, because member states are often not willing to do so. we need to have a follow-up step of having a european framework to protect them.
mr president, i have noticed something in this chamber. whenever people want to expand the powers of eu bodies – whether it is europol or eurojust or any of the quangos attached to the european union – they always have the last-ditch argument of security, and we are all supposed to say ‘oh security, we will not argue about it then’. there is a parallel with what happened to the fbi in north america: it began acting – exactly as in this report – against money launderers and terrorists and, of course, it eventually became a kind of federal police force for the entire united states. i have to say, quite apart from feeling less free, i do not feel any more secure handing powers of this kind to the same dolts who gave us the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, the overregulation of small business and the rest of it. i would rather we had intelligence and security services collaborating voluntarily and globally than placing such collaboration under the jurisdiction of the european union. as my countryman, william pitt the younger, put it: ‘necessity is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves.’
in writing. ‒ i do not approve of the procedure for approval without a vote, and would like to place my views on this subject on record.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-money-laundering regulation as i believe it is essential that we have the most rigorous possible protections in place to stop people from either laundering money or financing terrorism. i am delighted that the final directive calls for central registers of beneficial ownership, which will also help with the ongoing fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance, and i would call on all member states to take advantage of the option given in the directive to make those registers publicly accessible.
in writing. ‒ this legislation will be an important tool in preventing serious criminal activity and i was happy to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-money laundering regulation because i believe it is essential that we have the most rigorous possible protections in place to stop people from either laundering money or financing terrorism. i am delighted that the final directive calls for central registers of beneficial ownership, which will also help with the ongoing fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance, and i would call on all member states to take advantage of the option given in the directive to make those registers publicly accessible
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that we were able to get a first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fourth eu anti-money laundering directive; it is a key piece of legislation which marks a positive step in the fight against tax crimes and the financing of terrorism and serious crime. it also aligns eu legislation with international standards in that field, guaranteeing at the same time eu fundamental rights standards for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the anti-money laundering regulation because i believe it is essential that we have the most rigorous possible protections in place to stop people from either laundering money or financing terrorism. i am delighted that the final directive calls for central registers of beneficial ownership, which will also help with the ongoing fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance, and i would call on all member states to take advantage of the option given in the directive to make those registers publicly accessible.
in writing. ‒ it is vital that we have rigorous protection in place to prevent money laundering or terrorist financing, and therefore i voted in favour of this regulation. i am delighted that the final directive calls for central registers of beneficial ownership which will also help with the ongoing fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. i would call on all member states to take advantage of the option to make these registers publicly accessible.
in writing. ‒ along with the report concerning ‘information accompanying transfers of funds’, this legislation is vital in the fight against terrorism and transnational crime. crime networks spanning europe and across the globe benefit from authorities lack of co-operation and profit from being able to exploit the opportunities provided by borders to carry out their illicit activities and evade capture. by working to tackle this at a european level, member states of the eu will be able to implement a coordinated approach that will help to remove such opportunities, and is a good example of where the european union is able to offer value added in the fight against crime. it is estimated that money laundering costs the global economy nearly gbp 1 trillion per year and provides the capital to fund human-trafficking, terrorism and corruption. i am also pleased that this legislation finds the right balance between targeting criminals whilst allowing legitimate businesses and individuals to conduct their affairs without unnecessary impediment – the legislation will work on the basis of risk-assessments, only targeting transactions that appear suspicious. as the eu works towards a commitment of ‘better regulation’, this is a good example and i am pleased to have voted in favour.
mr president, i gave my support to the regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds, given that we need stronger measures to tackle tax avoidance and fraud. this means establishing public registers to increase transparency on the financial flux and have better protection at eu level for whistleblowers, given that we are almost completely dependent on them to alert us on the cases of fraud or where taxpayers’ money is abused. we also need a coordinated response from the law enforcement bodies in the member states and a standardised procedure for financial institutions and payment service providers to combat money laundering. it is simply unacceptable that billions and billions of euros simply continue to fall through the cracks every year.
in writing. ‒ i do not approve of the procedure for approval without a vote, and would like to place my views on this subject on record.
in writing. ‒ this legislation ensures that transfers of funds are fully traceable, by making competent authorities and payment service providers responsible for making sure that information on the payee is included with any transfer of funds.
in writing. ‒ this report strikes the right balance between the need to prevent money laundering and tax evasion on the one hand and data protection on the other. i was able to support the trilogue agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased we got agreement on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds.
in writing. ‒ this legislation ensures that transfers of funds are fully traceable, by making competent authorities and payment service providers responsible for making sure that information on the payee is included with any transfer of funds.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which was a recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds.
mr president, i voted in favour of the zwiefka report, as i believe we reached a balanced outcome. it is very positive that we updated this legislation after 10 years of its being in force. the regulation covers 50 000 companies which are yearly involved in cross-border insolvency procedures. it is important for them that we clarified the rules on jurisdiction of the courts, the recognition of judgments and the applicable law in these cases, and i consider the extension of the scope of the rules to hybrid procedures and company restructuring as an important step forward. i also welcome the introduction of the additional criterion of a three-month cooling-off period in order to avoid forum shopping.
in writing. ‒ i do not approve of the procedure for approval without a vote, and would like to place my views on this subject on record.
in writing. ‒ the main elements of the council’s position are as follows:– moving away from a traditional liquidation approach to insolvency to a ‘second-chance approach’ for businesses and entrepreneurs in financial difficulties when cross-border insolvency proceedings are involved;– the scope of the proposed insolvency regulation is therefore broader than the scope of the current insolvency regulation and extends to hybrid and pre-insolvency proceedings;– the new rules contain a set of safeguards aimed at preventing abusive forum shopping;– the regulation would impose on member states an obligation to establish insolvency registers (that contain certain information on the debtor and the insolvency practitioner); these national insolvency registers are to be interconnected and accessible via the european e-justice portal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of council regulation no 1346/2000 which determines which member state has jurisdiction for opening insolvency proceedings, establishes uniform rules on applicable law and provides for the recognition and enforcement of insolvency—related decisions, as well as for the coordination of main and secondary insolvency.
in writing. ‒ a large proportion of insolvencies involve cross-border issues and this agreement will help resolve possible legal conflicts. i was accordingly happy to support the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it largely seeks to improve functioning of the regulation, and i am also pleased the s&d group has managed to get some amendments in aimed at improving the situation of employees and small creditors.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that we got agreement on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the proposal largely seeks to improve functioning of the regulation. i am also proud that my s&d colleagues managed to get some amendments in aimed at improving the situation of employees and small creditors.
in writing. ‒ s&d meps voted in support of council regulation no 1346/2000 which determines which member state has jurisdiction for opening insolvency proceedings, establishes uniform rules on applicable law and provides for the recognition and enforcement of insolvency—related decisions as well as for the coordination of main and secondary insolvency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which improves the functioning of the european framework for cross-border insolvency proceedings.
mr president, i very much welcome the fact that we did actually postpone the final vote on conflict minerals and that it is going to trilogue. but i am deeply disappointed by the position adopted by the epp and ecr groups on blocking mandatory due diligence across the supply chain for conflict minerals. they know as well as we do that we will be able to make sure the minerals in our smartphones, tablets and computers are not mined by men, women and children who are exploited like slaves in third world mines only if all the operators involved, from a to z, are covered by mandatory rules requiring them to check on the presence of conflict minerals in their supply chains. otherwise, given that there are hardly any smelters or refiners in the eu, conflict minerals could continue to be sold to suppliers and manufacturers by smelters primarily based in china. the position of these groups is all the more difficult to understand knowing that the proposed rules do not entail a high price to be paid by companies. due diligence obligations are tailored to the company’s individual circumstances, size, leverage and position in the supply chain. they do not entail bureaucracy, and our group, the s&d group, has proposed that micro—enterprises be excluded from this regulation.
mr president, last year we gave several standing ovations to dr mukwege, our sakharov prize winner, for his tireless work to treat women and children. they are the real victims of the trade in conflict minerals. dr mukwege called for comprehensive and mandatory rules and from across this house we applauded his appeal. today, we have followed through in our votes. voluntary due diligence has been shown to be inadequate, and a narrow focus only on smelters and refineries would only serve to undermine our eu foundation industries in the long term. we have voted for effective and mandatory rules that apply to all the key actors involved in the trade of minerals across the supply chain. i voted for the report today to show that we are willing to follow through on our applause in this chamber with real action to improve human rights in conflict regions around the world.
mr president, we all want to curtail opportunities for armed groups and break links between minerals and conflicts, but we have to do it sensibly. unfortunately i cannot support this report because of the last-minute amendment that was pushed in to impose a mandatory – as opposed to voluntary – system. i support a voluntary system with mandatory due diligence, as the committee on international trade had proposed. a mandatory approach will fundamentally damage the economy of conflict-affected areas around the world – for example, the democratic republic of the congo, where mining is almost the only source of income in many areas. the dodd-frank act in the usa showed the folly of a mandatory approach. it showed that it is virtually impossible to comply with such regulations, and companies in the us now avoid most of these areas completely. the end result is that very poor regions cannot sell their minerals at all or sell them to countries with no responsible sourcing schemes – completely undermining the whole idea of the legislation. this is bad legislation: it will not deal with the real issue and all it will do is penalise the poorest people in the world.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report concerning due diligence for conflict minerals as important amendments, such as amendments 154 and 155, were passed, supporting a meaningful obligatory system. the responsible sourcing by industry and business of minerals from conflict areas is of great importance given that the eu is one of the biggest markets for such minerals. the exports of these minerals by armed groups often finance continuing violence with terrible implications for human rights, as well as arresting development in the countries concerned. the commission’s proposals did nothing meaningful to address and inform or to avoid importation of conflict minerals into the eu. unfortunately, the committee proposals were not very ambitious, so i supported progressive, meaningful amendments for the obligatory system of due diligence that would apply to all levels of the supply chain, and that would include all conflict minerals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amended proposal on conflict minerals. the proposal concerned minerals whose export profits are often used as a means of funding armed groups in the developing world, which fuels human rights violations, etc. the eu is one of the biggest markets for these materials. i voted in favour of a number of strong amendments from my political group gue/ngl and other groups which aimed at getting the system of due diligence made mandatory and expanding the list of minerals included beyond the four proposed by the commission. while not all of the amendments i supported were passed, amendments calling for the due diligence system to be made mandatory and applying it throughout the supply chain were adopted. for this reason i voted in favour of the amended proposal.
in writing. ‒ too many amendments were passed on this issue which sought to impose an unacceptable regulatory burden on businesses. insufficient account was taken of the ability for small businesses to comply with this legislation. for that reason, i felt that i had little choice but to vote against. i believe that there should indeed be tough legislation against the import of conflict minerals, but that legislation should be a) proportionate and b) determined by national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely right that action be taken to ensure that the eu supply chain is both protected and regulated in terms of the trade of conflict minerals – which has been proven to fuel criminality and which devastates local communities in war-torn parts of africa and south america. as with all legislation, however, there is a balance to be struck. despite supporting the overarching premise of transparency, i believe it is vital to ensure that reputable firms with long-standing economic benefits are treated fairly and not put under undue regulatory burdens in order to fulfil these requirements. this i feel was the most consistent and proportionate basis upon which to approach this report. what is needed now is a rigorous review process, in order to safeguard businesses from disproportionate burdens, as well as clear and tangible efforts to ensure that smaller enterprises that stand to be affected have access to funding through relevant eu programmes to tackle the cost of gaining certification.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this proposal is to help reduce the financing of armed groups and security forces through mineral proceeds in conflict-affected and high-risk areas by supporting and further promoting responsible sourcing practices of eu companies in relation to tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold originating from such areas. such importers of minerals or metals within the scope of the regulation may self-certify as responsible importers by declaring to a member state competent authority that they adhere to the supply chain due diligence obligations set out in the regulation. the declaration shall contain documentation in which the importer confirms its adherence to the obligations, including results of the independent third-party audits carried out. following the vote in the inta committee, the proposal was amended to make such efforts at due diligence a mandatory legal obligation for smelters and refiners which import such minerals into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of the proposal by the greens/efa group to make the legislation stronger, and welcome the support of parliament for this. a strong and comprehensive legislative response was needed. my constituents in wales demanded no less.
in writing. ‒ armed conflict, particularly over natural resources, has practically condemned much of sub-saharan africa to poverty and violence. by reducing eu demand for conflict minerals, the incidents of armed militants fighting over natural resources should be diminished. i believe in taking the strictest possible measures to limit funding to armed groups in conflict zones. these proposals will ensure that corporations incorporate due diligence in provenance in the future.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour colleagues, voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that a fully mandatory system covering all operators upstream and downstream needs to be put in place when it comes to conflict minerals. human rights abuses are common within the extractive industry and may include child labour, sexual violence, enforced disappearance, forced resettlement and the destruction of ritually or culturally significant sites.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that a voluntary approach for companies involved in mineral extraction does not prevent conflict minerals from entering the european supply chain. binding rules are an absolute necessity and i am pleased that parliament has voted to strengthen the commission’s original proposal.
in writing. ‒ this is a historical victory that puts the respect of human rights above the profit of companies. after a long and hard campaign, the s&d group convinced the rest of the european parliament to secure a legally binding scheme to ensure the traceability of minerals, to make sure that products sold in the eu do not fuel armed militias or foster human rights violations in conflict areas. there have been voluntary guidelines in place for five years and more than 80% of companies have chosen not to publish any information on their supply chain due diligence. these mandatory requirements, while not burdensome on any one link in the supply chain, will make a huge difference to those on the ground in conflict areas. we now need the support of eu member state governments to reach an agreement on this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i am delighted that we got a majority in parliament for due diligence from the start to the end of the supply chain for conflict minerals.
in writing. ‒ i am proud to have voted for compulsory checks on the sources of minerals imported from conflict zones. the vote signals intent to not put business interests ahead of fundamental human rights. the proposals ensure a legally binding scheme to ensure traceability of products sold in the eu. this will help safeguard eu industry and ensure that companies will be responsible for ensuring that their suppliers are not fuelling human rights abuse and conflicts across the world.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted today for compulsory checks on the sources of minerals imported from conflict zones. under the proposals, companies must make reasonable checks to ensure the step behind them in the supply chain can verify where the product came from, which will help break the link between armed conflict and the minerals trade. companies will be responsible for ensuring that their suppliers are not fuelling human rights abuse and conflicts across the world, benefiting both consumers and business.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this report, which calls for compulsory checks on the source of minerals from conflict zones. millions of people have been killed or displaced due to the trade of conflict minerals, and the real victims of the trade in conflict minerals are children and women. this mandatory system is vital in improving human rights in areas where conflict minerals are mined.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this proposal is to help reduce the financing of armed groups and security forces through mineral proceeds in conflict-affected and high-risk areas by supporting and further promoting responsible sourcing practices by eu companies in relation to tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold originating from such areas. i am confident that my conservative colleagues are fighting for sound legislation and a measured approach that will deliver this very important objective. i will continue to support their efforts to build a functioning system from the ground up, while allowing for genuine trade in these metals and minerals to continue.
in writing. ‒ at the core of this report is the very noble aim to help prevent armed militias in some of the poorest parts of the world profiting from the commercial extraction of natural resources (in this case, three specific resources). the commission presented a very sensible proposal that would have implemented a voluntary scheme, establishing a compromise between the aims of increasing transparency but weighed against the backdrop of international competition that is beyond the reach of the eu/international mandate. unfortunately, the majority in this parliament have sought to row against this compromise, opting instead for a mandatory, more proscriptive scheme. the effects of this will be quite simple. european—based companies seeking to conduct business with a corporate-social responsibility agenda will lose business to purely profit-minded rivals from around the world without any such restrictions. this will result in the loss of business, and thus jobs, for companies in the eu and, ironically, to an increase in the exact patterns of behaviour that this legislation is aimed at eradicating.
in writing. ‒ i voted with s&d colleagues in favour of this resolution because i truly believe that a fully mandatory system covering all operators upstream and downstream needs to be put in place when it comes to conflict-minerals. human rights abuses are common within the extractive industry and may include child labour, sexual violence, enforced disappearance, forced resettlement and the destruction of ritually or culturally significant sites.
in writing. ‒ this vote is for action to exclude conflict minerals from eu markets, and make sure that products sold in the eu do not fuel armed militias or foster human rights violations in conflict areas. under the proposals, companies must make reasonable checks to ensure the step behind them in the supply chain can verify where the product came from, which will help break the link between armed conflict and the minerals trade. voluntary requirements have been in place for many years, but very few businesses have taken them up. these new mandatory requirements, while not burdensome on any one link in the supply chain, would make a huge difference to those on the ground in conflict areas. labour meps voted in favour of these new requirements.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on a proposal to reject a commission delegated act, which conditionally allows the use of cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications. we believe it should only be our elected and accountable national governments that decide these things, not unelected eu commissioners using the undemocratic method of delegated acts to pass wide-reaching rules. we totally oppose the eu deciding what can and cannot be sold on the british market. however, blocking this delegated act will potentially have a far reaching effect on a certain section of british industry. however, of course we recognise the consequences of allowing cadmium to continue to be used, especially when there is new technology in its infancy that does not use cadmium-based dot technology in display screens. ukip fully supports the development of alternative technology to these hazardous substances.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on a proposal to reject a commission delegated act, which conditionally allows the use of cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications. we believe it should only be our elected and accountable national governments that decide these things, not unelected eu commissioners using the undemocratic method of delegated acts to pass wide-reaching rules. we totally oppose the eu deciding what can and cannot be sold on the british market. however blocking this delegated act will potentially have a far reaching effect on a certain section of british industry. however, of course we recognise the consequences of allowing cadmium to continue to be used, especially when there is new technology in its infancy that does not use cadmium-based dot technology in display screens. ukip fully supports the development of alternative technology to these hazardous substances.
in writing. ‒ cadmium is a carcinogenic substance which, under the restrictions of hazardous substances directive has been banned in electronic products in the eu since june 2014, so there are no more products on the eu market which contain this substance. the commission, in january this year, introduced a delegated act which would see cadmium quantum dots being allowed again in lcd tvs by allowing an exemption for its use. there are already cadmium-free quantum dot tvs on the market so there is no need to reintroduce toxic cadmium to electronic products. it is vital that the protection of consumers’ and workers’ health is the priority and for this reason i voted in favour of this resolution to reject any reintroduction of cadmium electronic products into the market.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on a proposal to reject a commission delegated act, which conditionally allows the use of cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications. we believe it should only be our elected and accountable national governments that decide these things, not unelected eu commissioners using the undemocratic method of delegated acts to pass wide-reaching rules. we totally oppose the eu deciding what can and cannot be sold on the british market. however, blocking this delegated act will potentially have a far reaching effect on a certain section of british industry. however, of course we recognise the consequences of allowing cadmium to continue to be used, especially when there is new technology in its infancy that does not use cadmium-based dot technology in display screens. ukip fully supports the development of alternative technology to these hazardous substances.
in writing. ‒ directive 2011/65/eu (rohs directive) restricts the use of cadmium in electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market in the eu. cadmium is carcinogenic, and can also cause acute flu-like symptoms, bronchitis and pneumonia. the proposed delegated act will delay the restriction on cadmium for equipment where it is believed there is currently no safer alternative on the market. it proposes that the restriction on using cadmium in colour converting leds such as lamps be delayed until 30 june 2017, and for use in solid state illumination or display systems such as in televisions, until 30 june 2018. the ecr group supports the objection resolution and believes that better regulation and innovation should be championed in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to object to a delegated act which would have extended the derogation for cadmium in colour converting leds (e.g. lamps) until 30 june 2017, and use in solid state illumination/display systems (e.g. televisions) until 30 june 2017. as the rapporteur on the rohs legislation in 2009 i know how important this decision was and that it was indeed in the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. ‒ the proposed delegated act will not only permit the use of a carcinogenic substance in the european market but will also stifle innovation in cadmium-free technology. european regulation should be designed not only to restrict materials that pose an unacceptable public health risk but should also favour innovation. the proposals are out of date and are a symptom of bad regulation. regulations in areas of technology need to react quickly to constant change, not only for public health but so that european technology firms are not placed at a competitive disadvantage within international markets. for these reasons i support this objection to the proposed delegated act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of the report as the justification given for exemption 39(b) is based on an outdated situation with regard to the practicability of the replacement of cadmium in quantum dots. it therefore calls for a swift reassessment of the existing exemption 39 with a view to its revocation.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on a proposal to reject a commission delegated act, which conditionally allows the use of cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications. we believe it should only be our elected and accountable national governments that decide these things, not unelected eu commissioners using the undemocratic method of delegated acts to pass wide reaching rules. we totally oppose the eu deciding what can and can’t be sold on the british market. however, blocking this delegated act will potentially have a far reaching effect on a certain section of british industry. however, of course we recognise the consequences of allowing cadmium to continue to be used, especially when there is new technology in its infancy that doesn’t use cadmium-based dot technology in display screens. ukip fully supports the development of alternative technology to these hazardous substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal because i share the concerns that lead to the objection to commission delegated directive of 30 january 2015 amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on a proposal to reject a commission delegated act, which conditionally allows the use of cadmium in illumination and display lighting applications. we believe it should only be our elected and accountable national governments that decide these things, not unelected eu commissioners using the undemocratic method of delegated acts to pass wide-reaching rules. we totally oppose the eu deciding what can and can’t be sold on the british market. however, blocking this delegated act will potentially have a far-reaching effect on a certain section of british industry. however, of course we recognise the consequences of allowing cadmium to continue to be used, especially when there is new technology in its infancy that doesn’t use cadmium-based dot technology in display screens. ukip fully supports the development of alternative technology to these hazardous substances.
in writing. ‒ we voted in support of the report as the justification given for exemption 39(b) is based on an outdated situation with regard to the practicability of the replacement of cadmium in quantum dots. it therefore calls for a swift reassessment of the existing exemption 39 with a view to its revocation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which upholds the exemption of the use for cadmium, a toxic and carcinogenic substance, in illumination and display lighting applications.
in writing. ‒ the delegated act aims to remove obligations for member states to communicate detailed information on ethanol production, for the commission to publish an annual balance sheet, and for importers to present an import licence. as a result the delegated text will lead to a reduction of the administrative burden for the commission and member states. the ecr shadow was opposed to this objection on the grounds that the delegated act, as part of the simplification agenda, will lead to a reduction of the administrative burden and reduction in costs for the member states without any impact on the sector.
in writing. ‒ the following-up of data relating to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures both transparency and knowledge as regards the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the proposal, as regards the obligation to present a licence for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 introducing certain detailed rules for applying council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 laying down specific measures concerning the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, but against all amendments.
in writing. ‒ the following-up of data relating to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures both transparency and knowledge as regards the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution regarding the market for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion for resolution because it is unacceptable that the maternity leave directive is still blocked in the council – and now there are rumours it might even be withdrawn as part of the commission’s refit exercise to make eu law lighter. yes, we need to have more efficient law-making that focuses on crucial things, but i find it difficult to understand why issues like the participation of women in the labour market and the fight against poverty, which is directly linked to this, would not be seen as key ones, on which the eu should tap the full potential of its ability to move things forward. it is unbelievable that for an issue as crucial as this one, which affects our entire society, we are still relying on a 1992 directive that has not been adapted to present-day needs. in the uk, more than half of mothers rely on grandparents when they go back to work, but not everyone is lucky enough to be able to rely on the help of others. that is why i urge the commission to make sure that the council finally breaks the deadlock on this crucial issue instead of taking the easy way out and referring it to the bin.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the non-legislative and non-binding resolution on the situation of the maternity leave directive. this resolution was more to do with the eu procedural situation than the content of the legislation. ukip totally opposes the eu creating laws over the uk – the only people that should make such legislation are elected national governments, accountable to voters at the ballot box, not unaccountable eu institutions. once eu legislation has passed, the only people that can initiate new legislation, begin to repeal or start amendment of it is the eu commission and they are not elected. however due to misrepresentation by the british press and other parties, ukip abstained to show that we are not opposed to maternity leave. what we are opposed to is unelected commissioners in brussels creating the law.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the non-legislative and non-binding resolution on the situation of the maternity leave directive. this resolution was more to do with the eu procedural situation than the content of the legislation. ukip totally opposes the eu creating laws over the uk – the only people that should make such legislation are elected national governments, accountable to voters at the ballot box, not unaccountable eu institutions. once eu legislation has passed, the only people that can initiate new legislation, begin to repeal or start amendment of it is the eu commission and they are not elected. however due to misrepresentation by the british press and other parties, ukip abstained to show that we are not opposed to maternity leave. what we are opposed to is unelected commissioners in brussels creating the law.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the non-legislative and non-binding resolution on the situation of the maternity leave directive. this resolution was more to do with the eu procedural situation than the content of the legislation. ukip totally opposes the eu creating laws over the uk – the only people that should make such legislation are elected national governments, accountable to voters at the ballot box, not unaccountable eu institutions. once eu legislation has passed, the only people that can initiate new legislation, begin to repeal or start amendment of it is the eu commission and they are not elected. however due to misrepresentation by the british press and other parties, ukip abstained to show that we are not opposed to maternity leave. what we are opposed to is unelected commissioners in brussels creating the law.
in writing. ‒ while i share the desire to see fair and comprehensive provision put in place to support both mothers and fathers as they get to grips with shouldering new parental responsibilities, i also believe that the eu should respect the principle of subsidiarity. it is not for the european parliament to legislate in this area. only a few weeks ago, the people of the united kingdom, including those in my constituency, northern ireland, elected members to a new national parliament at westminster. it is there – not here in the corridors of brussels and strasbourg – that decisions around maternity and paternity leave provision should be taken and enforced. how often in recent times has this parliament, through fascination with integration and harmonisation, forgotten that the greatest victories for our citizens come when local elected representatives recognise a local need and commit to bringing forward change to tackle it. that is a principle that is at the very core of the defence of national sovereignty – and is why i opposed this motion.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive on the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or who are breastfeeding (maternity leave directive) has been blocked in council since 2010. there is a blocking minority of member states who do not believe that it is within the eu’s legal competence to legislate on the specifics of maternity and paternity leave, notably regarding pay and duration. the ecr position remains consistent: we would like to see the commission withdraw the proposal and we remain opposed to the eu legislating on the pay and conditions of maternity and paternity leave
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the european commission not to withdraw draft eu legislation on maternity leave. the european parliament has in the past voted to increase guaranteed maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks fully paid and for the mandatory right to paternity leave for fathers. i strongly supported this. i believe that the parliament’s vote should be respected as the voice of citizens in wales and europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. i do not believe that it is within the eu’s legal competency to legislate on the specifics of maternity and paternity leave, notably pay and duration. this is a matter for member states and i urge the commission to withdraw the proposed maternity leave directive.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this oral question on the grounds that this directive encroaches too far into member states’ right of subsidiarity and would have a disproportionate cost for the uk. parliament’s amendments also go beyond the commission’s original proposal and the recommendations of the international labour organisation. additionally there are no legal grounds for the eu to be legislating on paternity leave. the conservative party believes that women’s rights are fundamental but sees no benefit for maternity, paternity or parental leave to be legislated on at an eu wide level. the conservatives have already made considerable and progressive changes in the uk to maternity and parental leave in addition to the provision of childcare to help both mothers and fathers return to work after the birth of a child.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues i voted in favour of this resolution because it reiterates a willingness to draft a separate directive establishing paid paternity leave of at least 10 working days and encouraging measures, legislative and otherwise, which will enable men, and fathers in particular, to exercise their right to achieve work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ in the past i have had some misgivings about this houseʼs position on maternity leave and it is clear that compromises will have to be found if we are to achieve a satisfactory outcome. it is not appropriate however for legislation to be simply jammed in the system and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution and would like to see some sort of meaningful progress on the subject matter.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the resolution. it follows four years of deadlock over the 2010 maternity leave directive which aims to extend the minimum length of maternity leave and protect the health and safety of workers who have recently returned to work after giving birth. we strongly deplore the attitude of the council and urge the member states to resume negotiations. if women are to play their full part in our economic recovery, and if we are to boost employment, it is clear we need to provide flexibility for mothers returning to the labour market after pregnancy. we are also calling on the commission to present a separate legislative proposal establishing a paid paternity leave. fathers must also have the right to achieve a work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which deplores the deadlock in the council regarding the maternity leave directive and urges the member states to resume negotiations.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on the non-legislative and non-binding resolution on the situation of the maternity leave directive. this resolution was more to do with the eu procedural situation that the content of the legislation. ukip totally opposes the eu creating laws over the uk – the only people that should make such legislation are elected national governments, accountable to voters at the ballot box, not unaccountable eu institutions. once eu legislation has passed, the only people that can initiate new, begin to repeal or start amendment of it is the eu commission and they are not elected. however due to misrepresentation by the british press and other parties ukip abstained to show that we are not opposed to maternity leave. what we are opposed to is unelected commissioners in brussels creating the law.
in writing. ‒ labour meps have today called on the commission to present a new legislative proposal to protect pregnant workers and provide stronger maternity and paternity rights. the resolution – which tory meps voted against – follows four years of deadlock over the 2010 maternity leave directive which aims to extend the minimum length of maternity leave and protect the health and safety of workers who have recently returned to work after giving birth. meps also called for legislation to establish paid paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of strengthened maternity and paternity rights, and so i voted in favour of this resolution. in order for people to balance their work and family lives we need a modern maternity leave framework which provides flexibility for mothers returning to work after having a child. to boost employment and economic recovery this needs to be addressed as soon as possible and i call for the commission to take immediate action.
in writing. ‒ the position of the uk conservative delegation on this matter remains consistent. we would like to see the commission withdraw this proposal and we remain opposed to the eu legislating on pay and conditions of maternity and paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ along with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this resolution because it reiterates its willingness to draft a separate directive establishing paid paternity leave of at least 10 working days and encouraging measures, legislative and otherwise, which enable men, and fathers in particular, to exercise their right to achieve work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ along with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this resolution, deploring the institutional deadlock around the directive, calling on the council to resume negotiations, and the commission to play its role as an honest broker. if the proposed directive does go into refit, it must be replaced immediately with a legislative alternative. the resolution also reiterates parliament’s willingness to draft a separate directive establishing paid paternity leave of at least 10 working days and encouraging measures, legislative and otherwise, which enable men, and fathers in particular, to exercise their right to achieve work-life balance. i am proud that my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group have remained determined and undeterred on this, to hold member state governments in the council of ministers to account. there must be a push towards strong maternity and paternity leave, empowering women economically across europe.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the commission to come forward with new proposals to unblock discussions on the maternity leave directive. after four years of deadlock, there had been fears that the commission would withdraw the original proposal without presenting a replacement text. the original maternity leave directive aimed to extend the minimum length of maternity leave and protect the health and safety of workers who have recently returned to work after giving birth. labour meps voted in favour of this resolution because we want to protect the rights of working parents and enable mothers, and fathers, to balance their work and family lives.
mr president, i supported this motion because it is clear that much more needs to be done to make sure that people with disabilities – and their carers – are offered the same opportunities as any other person. in the uk there are currently 1.3 million disabled people who are available and want to work, but only half of them are employed. less than a quarter of disabled people have qualifications. their carers are in a situation that is no better: 81% of at-work parents indicate that finding suitable childcare for a disabled child or children is a major barrier to pursuing a career. in the uk, again, we have 700 000 such children, and across the eu 15 million children, and their families whose options are potentially restricted through the lack of an enforceable entitlement to customised childcare. that is why it is crucial that the eu institutions step up their game to implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this house can be instrumental in making sure that this happens.
in writing. ‒ mr president, it is imperative that the european union continue to fulfil the obligations of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which it ratified in 2011, and which seeks the full integration and enhancement of people living with physical and mental impairments into education, employment and society as a whole. today’s motion comes in response to a list of questions posed by the un committee in april of this year aimed at driving forward change in many areas where problems and obstacles exist. it is positive, i feel, that parliament has recognised the need to improve independent travel opportunities for those living with disabilities, as well as to safeguard effective access to justice, services, the labour market and improved communication with advocacy groups in this sector. as an mep for northern ireland, i work closely with many local charities, including something special in eglinton, who provide an outlet in terms of skills training and employment for those living with learning difficulties. these organisations deserve continued eu financial and networking support in order to maximise their transformative work with this section of our community.
in writing. ‒ an estimated 80 million people in the european union have a disability. the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is an international human rights treaty of the united nations intended to protect the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) entered into force on 21 of january 2011. this has been signed by all 28 eu member states and ratified by 25 of them. issues examined in the review include equal rights to vote and stand for elections, criteria for reasonableness and proportionality for accommodation measures, full eu website accessibility, and a proposal for a european accessibility act. on the basis of the commission’s reply, the uncrpd committee will form its concluding observations by 4 september 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it highlights the aim of an eu anti-discrimination directive to protect those with disabilities against discrimination in social protection, health care and (re)habilitation, education, as well as access to and supply of goods and services. it also criticises the lack of progress within the european council, and urges member states to work towards a common position without further delay. i am glad that in wales we have a commissioner who can take up such cases and promote positive action.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my s&d colleagues, voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act, with the full involvement of persons with disabilities throughout the legislative cycle. it also stresses the need for this proposal to include a full range of policy areas with regard to the accessibility of goods and services for all eu citizens, fostering the independent living and full inclusion of people with disabilities and establishing an ongoing, effective and independent monitoring and enforcement mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the european unionʼs signing and ratification of the un convention was a landmark step, but this resolution allows me to express regret that parliament and disabled peopleʼs organisations were not consulted about the implementation report submitted by the commission, and to call for them to be included now both in the preparation of answers to the list of issues and in the european union delegation to take part in the constructive dialogue in geneva when they are debated. the commission says that it supports the ʽnothing about us, without usʼ call, and i hope it will respect it, in this most important opportunity for the lives of disabled people.
in writing. ‒ parliament has today issued a strong call for progress to be made on an anti-discrimination directive and it is imperative that the member states take full note of that call. unfortunately many aspects of disability discrimination remain outwith the control of the scottish parliament and we now have a majority tory government at westminster who are unlikely to prioritise many of the most vulnerable people in society. the snp in the scottish, uk and european parliaments will ensure that the needs of persons with disabilities are at all times fully recognised.
in writing. ‒ the eu promotes the active inclusion and full participation of disabled people in society, in line with the eu human rights approach to disability issues. disability is a rights issue and not a matter of discretion. this approach is also at the core of the un convention on the rights of people with disabilities (uncrpd), to which the eu is a signatory. i supported the resolution, as it is consensual and calls on the commission to present an ambitious legislative proposal on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which rightly states that paid employment is essential to enable persons with disabilities to lead an independent life, and that the member states should therefore strive for wider access to employment for people with disabilities so that they can contribute to the society they live in, and should, as a precondition, provide inclusive education for all children with disabilities, including those with learning difficulties, in order to help them acquire a good educational grounding from primary school on so that they can follow a curriculum appropriate to their learning abilities, thereby giving them the opportunity to gain a solid educational background that can help them develop a career or secure a good job which enables them to live an independent life later on.
in writing. ‒ meps voted in favour of the report on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, calling on the commission to deliver the requested explanation as to how it can ensure in current and future legislation that persons with disabilities are guaranteed equal opportunities, fundamental rights, equal access to services and the employment market, and the same rights and obligations in accessing social security as nationals of the member state in which they are covered, in line with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination, so that all persons with disabilities can enjoy the right to free movement held by all eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to uphold the rights of persons with disabilities, tackle discrimination and promote equality, therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we voted with my socialist colleagues in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act, with the full involvement of persons with disabilities throughout the legislative cycle. it also stresses the need for this proposal to include a full range of policy areas with regard to the accessibility of goods and services for all of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my socialist colleagues in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act, with the full involvement of persons with disabilities throughout the legislative cycle. it also stresses the need for this proposal to include a full range of policy areas with regard to the accessibility of goods and services for all eu citizens, fostering independent living and full inclusion of people with disabilities and establishing an ongoing, effective and independent monitoring and enforcement mechanism. this vote was of particular personal interest. firstly, due to the need to take into account the diversity existing among persons with disabilities by adopting specific actions and strategies which address the perspective of children, women & girls and persons identifying as lgbti with disabilities who might suffer from multiple forms of discrimination and have even more specific needs. that must include ensuring their contribution to the public debate and their participation in decision making, in order to respect the principle reflected in the parliamentary disability intergroup’s motto: ‘nothing about us without us’. secondly, it stresses the importance of taking disability into account in the eu development and humanitarian aid strategy. the eu must adopt a disability and development policy.
in writing. ‒ it would be nonsensical for a british mep to vote on this issue. we have negligible olive trees in the united kingdom. this is a matter which could, and should, be determined by the countries concerned. i do not know whether the proposed measures are good or bad, helpful or counterproductive to countries with olive trees. it is not for me to judge. i therefore abstained, and hope that other meps will extend the same courtesy to the united kingdom. better yet, we should stop taking action at eu level on issues which do not affect all of the countries within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa. it is currently having a disastrous effect on thousands of square miles of olive trees, mainly in southern italy, but has been seen recently in other member states and in other plants too. it is vital that we protect our agriculture in wales by taking early and preventative action.
in writing. ‒ the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa is already serious in parts of italy and has the potential to be devastating across the mediterranean area and southern europe. this is a major threat to rural industry and culture in the areas affected as well as to consumers across the eu. my group has called for strict quarantine measures to be implemented and it is disappointing that the majority in this house have not opted to follow that call.
in writing. ‒ the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa demonstrates the inadequacies of the eu phytosanitary control system, combined in this case, as it seems, with the weak response from the italian authorities. nevertheless, since the outbreak is highly contagious and might pose threat to other species of plants across europe, a sign of solidarity and swift action is needed.
in writing. ‒ i urge the commission to act swiftly on the outbreak of xyllella fastidiosa in the southern italian region of apulia, and, in particular, to verify the source of the infection and to review the eu official phytosanitary control system, to take all necessary measures against the importation of plants affected by xylella by controlling imports into the european union and ensure the traceability of susceptible plants imported. i also encourage the commission to analyse the best means of compensating producers for the destruction of their crops.
in writing. ‒ with the free movement of goods being a vital component of the common market, it is absolutely necessary for italy, as well as the eu collectively, to take the prescribed action to prevent the spread of xylella fastidiosa to the rest of the market. import controls are one of the eu’s most effective tools for preventing undesirable substances and diseases from entering the market and a risk-based approach is of course the most logical way to determine which products are safe for importing. although the eradication of infected plants will negatively impact the important olive growing regions of southern italy in the short term, to allow this disease to spread further would not be in the interest of growers. the conservative party believes that coordinated measures by eu member states are needed to preserve the wellbeing of the common market, which benefits the economies of the uk and eu as a whole, so i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the commission should ensure that sufficient financial and human resources are available to implement the relevant strategies, including financial support for farmers to apply appropriate agricultural practices for the management of xylella fastidiosa and its vectors. this resolution urges the commission to promote intensified research efforts without delay, with a view to increasing scientific knowledge of xylella fastidiosa and positively identifying the nature of the link between the pathogen, the symptoms and the development of disease.
in writing. ‒ the eu model of agriculture is increasingly based on unhealthy agricultural systems which are not resilient, with very limited attention to biodiversity and crop rotation in the case of non-perma-crop monocultures, a lack of beneficial organisms, and biodiversity declining in general, thus making it relatively easy for exotic plants and animals to establish themselves; resistance to pesticides used as insecticides is accelerated by the excessive and uncontrolled use of these products, thereby jeopardising any phytosanitary successes achieved.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa demonstrates the inadequacies of the eu phytosanitary control system, combined in this case, as it seems, with the weak response from the italian authorities. nevertheless, since the outbreak is highly contagious and might pose a threat to other species of plants across europe, a sign of solidarity and swift action is clearly needed.
in writing. ‒ the commission should ensure that sufficient financial and human resources are available to implement the relevant strategies, including financial support for farmers to apply appropriate agricultural practices for the management of xylella fastidiosa and its vectors. this resolution urges the commission to promote intensified research efforts without delay, with a view to increasing scientific knowledge of xylella fastidiosa and positively identifying the nature of the link between the pathogen, the symptoms and the development of disease.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution on the outbreak of outbreak of xylella fastidiosa affecting olive trees. this outbreak is highly contagious and could pose a serious threat to other species of plants across the european member states, therefore swift action is needed.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, it is some 50 years, i think, since turkey first put forward its application to join the european community. i must say i welcome the commissioner’s undertaking to re-energise the relationship with turkey but, in spite of lip service to turkish accession, there is a fundamental dishonesty about whether or not turkey will ever join the sort of eu that we have today. i have to say that many – not just in my own country but across europe – would like to see a fundamentally different sort of european union: a less tightly knit community of sovereign nations, with overlapping circles of engagement, an end to ever closer union, and a primary focus on making a success of the single market. i would suggest that this is the sort of european union that would be far more hospitable to turkey. the resolution reflects the ambivalence on the european union side, recognising on the one hand the importance of turkey’s position as a strategic partner, and particularly its significance in economic and energy relations, while on the other hand there is so much about turkey itself which is subject to criticism. we cannot go on offering insults and expecting progress in return. energy cooperation is a crucial issue. we should oppose the turkish stream project, which would bring russian gas across the black sea to turkey, and work towards the opening of chapter 15 in order to encourage turkey to continue to engage with the european union instead. may i ask the commission what other specific barriers there are to opening the energy chapter with turkey? for many, the continued division of cyprus is a useful obstacle to progress in relations with turkey, and if the eu really wanted to do something useful it would devote much political effort to helping to resolve the cyprus issue. such a resolution would even be helpful in boosting economic and political confidence in greece, may i add. instead, the european union continues to make lame, one-sided demands about, for example, the additional protocol, or fails to fulfil its own promises with regard to northern cyprus. the new president of northern cyprus, mr akıncı, has shown a great willingness to reach an accommodation. what more will the eu do to help? we need to make sure that turkey continues to play its vital role as a strong ally in nato and a partner of the european union: part of the alliance confronting terrorism and instability in the middle east and across the black sea, with a prosperous economy and anchored firmly in the democratic family of nations. we need to do more to help turkey in this direction.
madam president, firstly i warmly congratulate my colleague kati piri on this first report and recognize the very broad support she has in our group, even if other groups are not able to say the same in theirs. as for myself, let me be clear that i am someone who has argued over a long period for constitutional reform in turkey, as reflected in paragraph 6 of the report. that does not mean a super-presidency, as proposed by some. three weeks ahead of the parliamentary elections it highlights the danger of any one party obtaining a majority, which could threaten the need to win a cross-party consensus for any constitutional change. i note the recent survey showed 60% of the turkish public is against adoption of the presidential system. next, the kurdish issue. the message for the european parliament today for all parties is that the peace talks with the pkk must continue in good faith. any question against this would be deeply ironic, given the importance of the kurdish population in bringing security to the region. to those on the opposite side of this house who have argued against the opening of chapters, let us address the unrest in the region, because surely this supports the case in the resolution for opening chapter 31 on foreign policy. there is no strategy for promoting conflict resolution, counter terrorism, non-sectarianism and non-proliferation across the whole of the middle east and north africa that does not seriously include turkey within its process. to those who are concerned about the new gazprom deal announced between russia and turkey, which is by no means their first energy deal, i would say that this is an argument for opening the energy chapter to secure europe’s interest, and not to fight shy of it. above all, any member who is genuine in expressing concern about human rights and democracy in the country should join with us in calling for the opening of chapters 23 and 24 on fundamental rights. if europe really is open to turkish accession it is these chapters which should be open most.
mr president, this afternoon part of the town of palmyra in syria fell to islamic state. palmyra is around the same distance from the border of turkey as strasbourg is from frankfurt. should turkey become a member state, all the eu member states – and especially the uk, which i represent – would all have borders with iran, iraq, and syria. let us be clear. the british liberal democrats, the british labour party, and especially the british conservatives, who should all be ashamed of themselves, are all cheerleaders for turkey to become a member state of the european union. i urge these parties, and people over there, in their own national interest, and in the interest of all member states, to consider that, whatever their rationalisation may have been to have this pro-turkish policy when it was formulated, the facts on the ground have changed. turkey is no longer a credible candidate to be a member state of the european union. further – and this is a separate point, because our security would be at risk – turkey is a persistent and systematic violator of the human rights of its own people. if the european convention on human rights means anything, and i have to say i think it does not, there is no way that turkey can be a member state. i urge members, therefore, to support my amendment tomorrow.
blue-card question.– thank you very much for taking the question. you mentioned – as almost nobody else has, that i am aware of – that turkey is already a member of the eu customs union. as turkey is already a member of the eu customs union – as you correctly, and perceptively, mentioned – why is it necessary for turkey to become a full member state, which means we have free movement of people, massive cohesion fund payments and the rest?
madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur for her hard work and balanced approach in dealing with this delicate matter. regardless of the opinions held across this house, i think that we can all agree that it is in everyone’s interest for turkey to be a safe, democratic and prosperous country. while i take on board some of the concerns expressed by colleagues, i am afraid that the default negative position adopted by some keeps pushing turkey further away instead of drawing it into the fold. though this may be exactly what some want, we should not be surprised to see that constantly boxing turkey out has frustrated turkish moderates and fostered the isolationist sentiment the many in this house are so quick to condemn. let us adopt a more cohesive approach that rewards positive developments. it is the only way that we will be able to genuinely evaluate whether or not the eu can take its relationship with turkey to the next level.
madam president, despite the turkish government’s declaration that its priority is eu membership, today’s progress report shows this wanting. humanist civil rights, particularly for journalists, continue to be undermined and corruption is widespread. the opportunity for reopening talks in cyprus following the welcome election of mustafa akıncı in occupied northern cyprus has been undermined by ankara’s attitude to cyprus’s oil exploration rights. meanwhile, turkey, in spite of its nato membership, remains at best ambivalent towards isis terrorism and hostile to israel. it is also regrettable, on the centenary of the armenian genocide, that turkey refuses to open the border with armenia or recognise this historic crime. meanwhile, president erdoğan continues to aggrandise his office into that reminiscent of an ottoman sultan whilst boosting his ties with putin’s russia. turkey has great geopolitical potential, as has been said by many, as a strategic country with huge economic and energy security roles and a vibrant and rich culture. let us hope that the muted tone of the period report will be the beginning of a rapprochement rather than a harbinger of a deteriorating relationship between turkey and the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, there are concerns in this chamber about human rights in ethiopia. it is only right that ethiopia should be encouraged to respect the rights of its citizens, but it would be foolish to take a holier-than-thou approach to diplomacy. take, for example, the issue of villagisation, which revolves around the removal of people to villages in new areas often far from their tribal lands, all in the name of commercialising agriculture. before emitting the usual gasps of horror, the eu and the member states need to look in the mirror and genuinely consider whether the foreign aid they have provided is being used to support this policy. ethiopia fulfils many humanitarian obligations, as we have heard from the commissioner: not least, accommodating more than 650 000 refugees, the largest number in africa, including populations from south sudan, eritrea and somalia. ethiopia enjoys good relations with the west, and it is essential that this regional power, in a deeply troubled part of the world, is allowed to continue developing its economy alongside regional stability, including that of its promising neighbour somaliland, which craves and deserves international recognition. instead of a reactionary response to the crisis in the mediterranean, and in an attempt to stop further migration, we should pursue instead the proactive development of the country through trade – an area in which the european union has, of course, been destructive. ethiopia’s top export (accounting for 28%) is coffee, which can face third-country tariffs of up to 9%. if africa is truly to be allowed to develop, then the eu must lift its protectionist tariffs and stop mumbling into its own, cheaper coffee.
mr president, i would like to thank josef weidenholzer and many other colleagues for speaking on this issue, which sadly does not reach mainstream western media. i have been working with civil society groups from ogaden in ethiopia, and it was important for me to speak out on the situation as there has been no level playing field for opposition voices. ethiopia will have its elections next week without an eu election observation mission, and this is happening while the government cracks down on journalists and civil society and persecutes the ogaden oromo and other ethnic groups, targeting women and children. rape and torture have been systematically used to spread fear, and the ogaden region is effectively under government embargo. meanwhile, ethiopia is the fourth largest recipient of eu aid and receives 45% of its budget through foreign aid. the eu must make a clear public statement, outlining its concerns about the upcoming elections before 24 may and making clear its commitment to human rights and democracy in solidarity with the people of ethiopia. it must also ensure the eu aid money is not being used or implicated in ethnic persecution and human rights violations. a more secure and peaceful ethiopia must not come at the price of human rights abuses or sham elections with no healthy opposition. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– thank you for taking my blue card, mrs ward. do you not accept why everybody in this chamber is concerned about allegations of human rights abuse? the greatest threat to the horn of africa is the rise of islamic fundamentalism. do you not agree with me that ethiopia should actually be given credit for the huge work she is doing to combat extremism in that area, and for actually being able to have a far better approach to women’s rights and children’s rights than that which is being offered by islamic fundamentalists?
blue-card answer.– i spend a lot of my time working with civil society groups and i work with unrepresented people who have no voice. i speak here, i use my position to give power and voice to those people who do not have a voice. the organisations that i have worked for have brought forward huge abuses of human rights in respect of violence against women and girls in ethiopia by the government there. so yes, i stand up for human rights, and i think one of the worst threats against our security and democracy is the fact that we are not represented equally in the world. women and men do not have equal representation. i see that as a massive problem for us in society. (interjection from the questioner)i have answered the question. the biggest threat, mr carver, is the threat that men hold the balance of power.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, we meet on the day after the latest cross-party mediation talks – the contents of which must remain confidential – in a process in which i am proud to take part on behalf of my group. the meeting last night, which was prolonged, dealt with the contentious issues, including commitment to the european perspective agreed by all parties, in a process which is continuing. to my fellow members of the european parliament, i wish to make some comments of my own, not about the talks, but about the country. firstly, the one-sided call to end the parliamentary boycott, without taking decisive measures to address the failings of the political institutions, is a partisan, not a cross-party, answer and it is therefore not an answer. secondly, my group has never actively supported any parliamentary boycott or even the publication of wiretap tapes, and, if jointly we are to succeed, then members of the epp group – not mr kukan – should show the same discipline by not blaming the opposition, or indeed my own group. thirdly, no-one suggests that the leaked surveillance tapes which prompted this crisis are entirely fabricated, and this parliament should support the demarche from the eu ambassadors that there must be accountability for the wrongdoing identified. fourthly, the reforms in the very areas which have caused concern – the judiciary, the media, electoral practices, civil society – have already been part of progress reports, action plans and the high-level accession dialogue, so that any fresh commitment to address them must demonstrate why this time it will be different. fifthly, no-one is above the law but, if an opposition leader is put in jail, our solidarity would be not simply with him but with the very notion of democracy in the country, which itself will be called into question by such a step. last weekend i stood at the site of the terror attacks in kumanovo amidst burnt-out houses whose walls were pockmarked with bullet holes and where the view through shattered windows revealed interiors buried in rubble. the families i talked to had hidden for their lives from a 30—hour firefight and suffered the trauma of witnessing 18 people dead. we all hoped that this was a one-off event with no repercussions for inter-ethnic relations, but the families told me they believe the event to be linked to the breakdown of political stability. this lack of trust is, in itself, dangerous. i have repeatedly warned that europe’s failure to start accession talks risks a return to conflict, and this deadly attack is a tragic and urgent reminder that this warning is crying out to be heard. what happened in kumanovo, and in the country, may not be the direct responsibility of europe, but if we expect the political parties of the country to exercise their responsibilities – and we do expect that – then they can reasonably expect europe to exercise ours.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, commissioner stylianides has usefully described the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. he described the violence and killings in the north and he referred to the long-running political crisis in the country. i am sure he understates the seriousness of the nature of the problem, but never mind, because he tells us that the eu is sending legal experts to sort out the systematic problems there. the commissioner is confident that fyrom can soon be brought back on track in its candidate process in joining the european union. indeed, as recently as 11 march this parliament voted in favour of the progress report on fyrom’s entry into the eu. like so many countries before it, it does not matter how corrupt or unsuitable fyrom is. from the european union’s point of view, what is important is that it brings another entry country into its great empire. good luck to your legal experts in sorting out its problems. i sincerely wish them luck.
madam president, i look on with interest at this. i see the summit is tomorrow, and you spoke about the achievements which have already been achieved, including the dealings with ukraine. it is a peculiar definition of achievement if you look at the sorry state of affairs in that country at the moment, and my thoughts – and i am sure all of our thoughts – go to the people who are suffering there. the constant drive by this place to expand its influence and authority, to take in more countries, does not seem to know any bounds or limits – even when you know that you are heading out into the sphere of influence of where russia is, you know the situation there, and you know that it is putting peace at further risk. this seems a reckless method. it is almost like the enemy on star trek called the borg, who just cannot help but assimilate. they take individuality and make everyone the same; everyone is under their sphere of control and it is their sole purpose for existence. the more i am in this place, the more i feel that this is a very serious version of that. you cannot help but seek to expand constantly, grow, influence, and it needs to stop. you need to stop. take a breath, and just think about what is going on. so, once again, i despair when i hear these things, and i truly hope that nothing bad will come of this summit.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, unemployment in my country and in my own region of the west midlands has in fact been declining significantly over the last few years. unemployment amongst the 16-24 year olds has been falling rapidly over the last year. yet it edged down only slightly in the 3 months to march and, as a result, youth unemployment now stands at 15.9%, and the most recent figures from the cbi show that unemployment actually rose last month in the west midlands. so whatever the statistics tell us, what i know is that we still have six and a half thousand 16-24 year olds unemployed in the city of birmingham. so we need to take a very good look at what is, and what is not, successful. the youth employment initiative has fallen very short of expectations. i find the court of auditors report very worrying and i particularly welcome the opportunity of an exchange of views with iliana ivanova, in the employment committee next week, on the eca’s special report. if the youth employment initiative is not having a positive impact, we should be looking carefully at why this is the case and, in a week when we see the better regulation package announced by vice president timmermans, let us make sure that we help smes, because that is where growth comes, and that is where jobs for young people will come.
madam president, well who could possibly have guessed that we would end up here – a headline eu policy involving taxpayers’ money that just has not worked out. it kind of sums up the european union really, does it not? a big idea, splashing about taxpayers’ money like cologne, and the results are ineffective and disappointing. and when countries realise that this eu state intervention is not right for their countries, what does this parliament seek to do but try to force them to do it the eu way anyway! there is such a simple alternative: british taxpayers funding british projects with british knowledge to get british young people into work; german taxpayers funding german projects; latvian taxpayers funding latvian projects. it is so simple and straightforward. it does not have to be the eu way. stop interfering and leave countries to spend their own money to support their own young people.
madam president, this scheme had been running for a year before – in march 2014 – the tory government of the uk even presented any programmes to draw down any money whatsoever. they then only proposed to draw down a minimum amount. there were eur 206 million available to the uk, tens of millions of euros available to help put young people in my region of the west midlands back into work. the united kingdom government, led by these conservatives has now put in a minimal proposition to draw it down a year late. and, of course, they refuse to accept the basic rules that apply to everybody else in the union, that govern this scheme, to enable the money to be drawn down. they will not in fact draw it down unless it is done in their own special different way. the result is that young people in the west midlands, tens of thousands of them, remain unemployed.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, in 1986 the international whaling commission adopted a ban on commercial whaling for very good reasons: whales are endangered. however, since then over 30 000 whales have been killed and japan has contributed to this massacre, because it is one of only three countries continuing to hunt whales. it justifies this under scientific research, but the rest of the world has always seen this as an excuse to continue whale hunting for food. the icj ruled this march that there was a lack of scientific merit in japan’s whale hunting programs, yet, since the court’s ruling, japan has announced another 12-year whaling program. it is truly horrifying that japan continues such practices with no sign of scientific reports; there are just no excuses for the killing of whales. if it must study, japan should carry out non-lethal research and stop killing highly endangered species. it is possible and rewarding and much more productive. japan has plenty of other meat to eat, and as the japanese have become better informed the demand for whale meat has plummeted, but still japan continues to subsidise this killing. we and the international community must discourage these barbaric acts. i thank the council for its actions to get japan to stop these barbaric practices. the eu trades with japan and has ties with japan. what next, then, does the council plan to say to japan? stop now or suffer the consequences?
in writing.– i am strongly opposed to the hunting of cetaceans (whales, dolphins, and porpoises). i believe the hunting of these creatures involves unacceptable cruelty and that well-managed, responsible tourism is the only truly sustainable use of these animals. i therefore strongly support the maintenance of the international whaling commission’s global moratorium on commercial whaling. japan is legally bound by the iwc moratorium yet carries out large-scale whaling for so called ‘scientific research’. there is no valid scientific or other reason for these hunts and i urge japan to cease its activities immediately. japan does great harm to its reputation by carrying on these hunts and is undermining the global moratorium on commercial whaling.
blue-card question.– thank you for taking the question. sir, do you think it was a good decision or a bad decision for spain to enter the euro?
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, surprisingly, perhaps, i agree with much of what the previous speaker has said. the long-term economic reality is wholly different from that which is put forward in this document. the fact is that eu regulation hampers the flexibility of labour markets a lot more. as an eu member, the uk has to accept all of the eu’s growth-toxic legislation; and by the way, only 15% of the uk’s gdp is accounted for by eu trade. the eu also imposes alternative energy policies. in direct consequence, electricity in the european union now costs twice as much as in the united states, and indeed energy prices in the eu increased by 40% from 2006 to 2013. further, the eu is a protectionist construct. it was set up that way. it inhibits free trade, and one example is that member states cannot enter into their own trade agreements. the eu single currency – the euro – defies economic sense, mr pons. spain is in a monetary union with germany. greece is in a monetary union with germany. it does not work. the euro began as a one-size-fits-all currency. it has now become a kind of economic doomsday machine that engenders massive unemployment and the consequent human suffering. burdensome regulation... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, like many colleagues, i welcome these cautious signs of economic recovery in the eu but at the same time we do have to be realistic. we cannot forget that these signs are mainly due to external factors like low oil prices, a weak euro and the supporting programme of the ecb. we also cannot be blind to important economic differences between member states, as well as crucial regional differences. looking at my country, the economic situation of my constituency, the west midlands, is profoundly different from the one in london. as long as these differences are not tackled in a structural way, it will be difficult for us to address economic growth in the eu. therefore, i am convinced that a lot remains to be done to link to a sustainable growth path to help smes find the right access to financing, and to tackle youth unemployment in a serious way. there are three main structural regulatory challenges that we need to tackle in the coming months, which could contribute towards a sustainable growth path. a social reform of the economic governance rules with enough flexibility for member states; making an ambitious european investment plan operational; and a swift and ambitious reform of the european capital markets union.
madam president, one crucial dimension of the energy union is the completion of a fully integrated internal energy market. this cannot be achieved without a strengthening of the role of acer. europe’s energy system is still too fragmented. building a well-functioning, well-connected internal energy market will bring down retail prices in europe, contribute to the fight against energy poverty in my region, the northwest of england, and across the eu, while at the same time strengthening eu energy security. acer plays a key part in creating the seamless internal market as it deals with cross—border issues and enhances interconnections within the eu. from october 2015, acer will also monitor the wholesale market to detect market abuse. the energy union action plan foresees the reinforcement of the european regulatory framework. commissioner, as my colleagues have asked, will this be accompanied by the additional budget for human resources that acer has requested?
madam president, my good friend and colleague, jerzy buzek, tells us that the staffing of acer is insufficient for the task we have set out for it in the 2011 remit regulation; he calls for 30 additional staff. i am sure that he is right in his diagnosis, but i am not quite sure that i share his prescription. rather than increase the staff, we must question the scope of remit. the famous scottish economist, adam smith, described the behaviour of markets when thousands of economic operators make deals and decisions based on their own economic self-interest. he called it the ‘invisible hand’. modern analysts might call it an ‘emergent property’. it is a general rule that legislative interference in markets almost invariably makes them perform worse rather than better. of course, no one imagines that a modern economy can operate without appropriate regulation and supervision, but we do not need detailed analysis of each and every deal. rather than employing more bureaucrats, we should curtail the scope of remit.
author.– madam president, over two months have passed since the disappearance of itai dzamara. this should be a matter of great concern, not just to people in zimbabwe, but to the wider international community. most regrettably, it is indicative of the very serious situation in zimbabwe, which is in a state of economic and political turmoil and where political freedom does not exist. at the same time, we have seen a massive increase in china’s presence in the country. i have to say that we have been discussing the issue of zimbabwe since my time in this parliament began – and i have been here 15 years now – and it does not seem to get any better, in spite of some efforts. we constantly defer to the south african development community (sadc) and to the african union and specifically to the regional power, which is south africa. given our major role as a provider of humanitarian and development assistance in the region, is it not time that the commission and the council again paid attention to zimbabwe? in particular, i ask that the council reconsider its decisions of february 2014 and of february this year to scale back almost to zero the targeted sanctions on zimbabwe.
author.– madam president, we are all watching human rights abuse in zimbabwe in despair, particularly the case of mr itai dzamara, abducted in march by people unknown. however, it is not the first time that mr dzamara has been targeted. he has been beaten and harassed and now detained. by whom? we do not know. the police and intelligence organisations are denying involvement and failing to comply with a high court order instructing them to search for mr dzamara and report on his progress. this all raises concern about the mugabe regime and how it deals with political opponents, journalists and activists who dare to criticise the government and state in zimbabwe. we know that human rights activists in zimbabwe face severe challenges and restrictions on their work, including political intimidation, harassment, arbitrary arrest and physical violence to them and their families. this is all taking place in the face of a new constitution and a new zimbabwe human rights commission, both of which were supported by the eu and brought hope to the people of zimbabwe. the government, police and central intelligence organisation (cio) must do all they can to identify the location of mr dzamara, protect him and bring to justice the thugs who have taken him.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the usual hypocrisy within the eu institutions continues unabated. the eu gasps in horror at yet another tragedy facing this country but, as usual, says one thing and does another. why is it that president mugabe can still visit a european country despite a ban? but the problem goes a lot further. if human rights activists such as this are being deliberately targeted because individuals had their eyes on the eur 234 million annual eu grants, then here, in the eu institutions, we ought to look inwardly at the consequences of that grants programme. because we are responsible for the situation that we have this morning and for other instances where voters’ rights and citizens’ rights in that country are at risk and individuals are also at risk in terms of their personal security and safety. let the eu look at itself and the consequences of that grants programme.
author.– mr president, the last few weeks have seen much debate in europe about our own migrant challenges in the mediterranean, and the plight of those fleeing their countries from persecution and economic disaster in the middle east and in north africa. the long-suffering and persecuted rohingya muslim minority in burma is now creating the same pattern of push and pull factors in south-east asia. but i am pleased to note that in the last few days we have seen both indonesia and malaysia agree to take up to 7 000 people on a temporary basis, and even today, in the last few hours, the president of gambia has announced his intention to offer permanent refugee status to all of the rohingya refugees. in the longer term, however, the only way to solve the problem is to remove the factors that are forcing people to attempt such perilous journeys. the economic discrimination and persecution against the rohingya in burma is a well-documented and long-standing issue and more must be done to tackle it. i am pleased that the opposition party in burma of aung san suu kyi has now issued a statement calling for an end to discrimination and to denial of citizenship. we in the european union should do more to press for changes in our dealings with burma-myanmar as it looks to open up its markets and seeks eu aid and investment.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, let me begin by thanking colleagues from all political groups for their help in giving the tragic plight of rohingya refugees the attention it deserves. as legislators, it is our duty to denounce governments that are responsible, both directly and indirectly, for the current situation. recent news is a testament to myanmar’s appalling civil rights record and unworthy of a nation that is seeking to be part of the international community. firm action should be taken until myanmar finally passes legislation that will help minorities in that country come out of the middle ages and into the 21st century. while europe faces issues of its own closer to home, there is a common understanding that we have a moral responsibility when it comes to saving human lives. myanmar’s neighbours should not beat around the bush but should fulfil their obligations under international maritime law to rescue rohingya refugees.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i have visited some of the camps for the rohingya people in bangladesh, where people have been eking out an existence for at least a couple of decades. what we have seen going on in burma/myanmar, as many have said here, has basically been a form of ethnic cleansing, where we see the rohingya who have been there for generations instrumentalised by the government and allowed to vote at times when it has been convenient in sham elections; now, when maybe it is not so convenient, the white cards that had allowed rohingya people to vote have been removed. rohingya people there need the state’s permission to marry and to have children. they have had no protection from sectarian violence and, indeed, they have been victims of state violence and eviction. so it is not surprising that many of them have fled across the borders, where again they find themselves at risk of being instrumentalised. it is clear, as others have said, that the source of this problem lies in burma/myanmar. they have not even taken back the 200-300 people that they have recognised as their citizens from the camps in bangladesh. so i would add my voice and that of my group to those who are saying we need to do more with the burmese government to actually make them live up to their responsibilities and to take back, take charge of and give citizenship to these people who they have persecuted for so long.
author.– mr president, we have massive political repression and a climate of fear in swaziland: a fragile civil society urgently needs our support. trade unions such as tucoswa are central to this movement, and they are watching the european parliament today and so is the swazi government. with this resolution we are telling them that europe is paying close attention to the human and labour rights situation and that the imprisonment and treatment of thulani maseko and bheki makhubu are intolerable. they must be freed at once and unconditionally. our determination to help those who fight for progress in swaziland can only be meaningful if it is matched with real action. in this resolution we call on the eu to use all political and economic levers available to us to protect human rights in swaziland. importantly, this must be taken up by the commission and its representatives in swaziland. commissioner, the us has acted. why haven’t we?
member of the commission.– mr president, we welcome the european parliament’s interest in the specific case of the lawyer and human rights activist, thulani maseko, and his co-accused, bheki makhubu, editor of the nation magazine. in our active engagement, we have since the very beginning in march 2014 always expressed our serious concerns regarding the issue of freedom of the media and freedom of expression in swaziland. thulani maseko and bheki makhubu were arrested on 17 march 2014 after they had written an article in the nation magazine criticising the way the courts had handled the arrest of a government vehicle inspector. from the outset, the eu delegation in mbabane, in consultation with our partners, has followed both cases very closely. the eu ambassador, who has been present at the court, has been in close contact with the relatives and the legal team and has introduced a formal request to visit both men in prison. the european union made a local statement on 31 march last year in order to express its concern about the detention of the two accused, followed in june 2014 by mentioning this in an eu statement during the ilo international labour conference while discussing labour standards in swaziland. nevertheless, the men were sentenced to two years’ imprisonment without the alternative option of a fine. the trial was widely condemned by leading international rights groups as unfair and not complying with international standards. a spokesperson’s statement was issued after this severe sentencing in july 2014, in which we called upon the swaziland authorities to respect and promote the freedom of expression in line with the country’s constitution and international and regional human rights obligations. the european union admits that the human rights track record is unsettling, and unfortunately improvements are extremely slow but, since last week, trade unions are no longer banned. the latter unfortunately does not guarantee that their meetings will not any longer be disturbed nor that their militants will not remain in prison. let me conclude by saying that swaziland’s whole justice sector is under pressure. chief justice michael ramodibedi has been accused of 28 infractions, including abuse of power. judge simelane, who tried the two activists, is himself currently arrested and charged with abuse of power and defeating the ends of justice. finally, the minister of justice... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i am not sure whether colleagues are complaining. i seem to have missed the vote on amendment 8 unless it was withdrawn, but i did not hear of any withdrawal and i assume that is why my colleagues are complaining.
madam president, it clears up the confusion but you did not mention at the time that this was happening and i believe that we have therefore voted a different way on amendment 3 to paragraph 11 than we would otherwise have done.
madam president, i was hoping that a representative from a larger group than ours would actually speak against. turkey is a very, very important matter. we have responsibilities to our constituents: our constituents are entitled to know where we stand on this, and i would suggest that the vote goes forward and people do not try to evade it.
madam president, what a curious idea that we are obliged to conduct foreign policy collectively and that we have no influence in the world as independent voices. consider the example of non-eu norway, a nation of five million people, whose diplomats have nonetheless been active on almost every continent and archipelago. they negotiated the peace deal between sudan and south sudan, the oslo accords between israel and the palestinians. they are active in south-east asia, in sri lanka. do you not think that a large country might just be able to have an impact on world affairs? the united kingdom is a nation of 63 million, a trading maritime nation connected by its enterprise, by habit and history, by law and language to every continent. i think it might just be able, as the fifth largest economy and the fourth military power in the world, to have some kind of independent foreign policy and, to state the obvious: you are more influential in foreign policy terms if you have... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i abstained on this report because whilst i fully agree that we should look into how we could step up cooperation to make the eu’s common security and defence policy more efficient, i think it is crucial both for the eu and my country that the uk is kept on board. yes, the eu needs to add a bite to its bark on security and defence, but when this happens outside nato, or by duplicating actions already covered by nato, i find it difficult to support this. it simply means wasting more money and getting less global clout in return. i do, however, think that the report addresses a number of issues of major importance that should be addressed when the member states discuss the csdp in june. crucially, we should be looking into where we can provide added value and do more with the few resources that we have. that is why we need to connect the dots between all policies that touch on... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, almost a year ago i was in this chamber for the first time as a new mep when i heard members demanding sanctions against russia, and even some members saying that the eu should declare war on russia. i was told not to worry as the eu does not have these desires and does not have an eu army. but, under the guise of this policy of implementing a common security and defence policy, today this chamber voted on financing for an eu army, they voted on financing eu military research, it voted on tax incentives for companies providing finance and support for eu defence, and it also voted for the ability for the eu to initiate its own drone killings. today this chamber has turned the eu into a dark and dangerous place. that is why i voted against it, because i do not believe the eu should have the power to wage war on other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy as much of it was concerned with greater militarisation of the eu which i, and sinn féin as a whole, oppose. the report was concerned with what it called ‘synergies’ and ‘efficiencies’ of pooling defence resources and directing more funding at r&d in ‘defence’. i do not support a common eu military defence nor do i support the use of irish and european taxpayers’ money in research and development for the military industry. the report also argues the importance of defence to eu ‘strategic interests’ and the need for complementarity between the eu, member states and nato in territorial defence. as an irish mep i support the policy of irish neutrality and i oppose militarisation in the eu. for these reasons i voted against this annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the common security and defence policy in principle: the uk is a member of nato, and this arrangement works very well for ensuring national security. the tone of this report pushes us ever closer to a fully-fledged eu army and indeed proposes tax incentives for companies cooperating with it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the drive to ever closer union is a major concern for us and many of our constituents. we are against the centralisation of powers in brussels and the transfer of sovereignty from the member states to eu level. foreign and defence policy has so far remained the prerogative of member states, with less far—reaching eu interference than other areas. sections of this report called for increases in, or support of, eu foreign, security and defence policy, which is something we do not support.
in writing. ‒ whilst highly alarming, it is not unsurprising that the aim of a common eu defence and security policy remains a top priority for these institutions. it is no secret that i and my party believe wholeheartedly in the sovereign role of the armed forces in the united kingdom to keep our borders and our people safe. their skill, their courage and their enduring sacrifice is testament to the fact that this crucial function must not be outsourced to the eurocrats of brussels and strasbourg. one must question whether this fascination is more about integration and harmonisation than the safety of our collective nations. that is why i have opposed the report. i do, however, welcome the pressure placed on member states to adhere to the principle of at least 2% gdp spending on defence. this was a key part of my party’s recent election manifesto and one to which we will seek to ensure that the uk government remains accountable in times ahead.
in writing. ‒ the ecr believes defence policy must always remain a matter of national sovereignty. we continue to resist moves towards the creation of an eu army and expensive new eu military structures which will undermine nato and weaken our links with international defence partners.
in writing. ‒ overall, i support the report. the need for europeans to work together to improve their defence capabilities has never been greater. an effective and credible european security and defence policy is, therefore, the foundation of our citizens’ well—being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato, or interfere in what should be member state or industry—driven activity. i therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the csdp needs to be improved to enable europeans to shoulder their international security responsibilities more effectively. the report, however, offers ideas which could interfere in what should be member state competence.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because i believed it moved into areas that should be member states’ competence.
in writing. ‒ overall, i support the report. the need for europeans to work together to improve their defence capabilities has never been greater. an effective and credible eu security and defence policy is, therefore, the foundation of our citizensʼ well-being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full-cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato or interfere in what should be member state or industry-driven activity. i therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ overall, i support the report. the need for europeans to work together to improve their defence capabilities has never been greater. an effective and credible european security and defence policy is, therefore, the foundation of our citizens’ well-being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato, or interfere in what should be member state or industry—driven activity. we therefore abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i broadly support this report on the whole. an effective and credible european security and defence policy is the foundation of our citizens’ well-being and welfare. we need to provide a renewed focus on where csdp can best contribute to global security, through a full cycle approach to tackling conflict, as well as using a comprehensive approach and complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. however, the report offers ideas which could duplicate the work of nato or interfere in what should be member state or industry—driven activity. i therefore abstained on the final vote.
madam president, i could not agree more that we need to thoroughly rethink our common security and defence policy, especially when it comes to resource management. a lot can – and should – be done to improve the efficiency and cost effectiveness of csdp missions by looking into how member states can pool and share resources, capabilities and assets, which would in turn allow us to have the faster, more flexible csdp missions that are needed to underpin a strong and effective foreign policy. better resource management, however, crucially means that we should look into how we can be complementary to what is already being done elsewhere – such as nato – rather than duplicating it. i do not agree that there is a need for eu tax incentives for cooperation and pooling of capabilities, given that the case for increased cooperation is strong enough by itself and does not need tax measures that might in turn reduce incentives… (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the common security and defence policy in principle: the uk is a member of nato, and this arrangement works very well for ensuring national security. the tone of this report pushes us ever closer to a fully-fledged eu army and indeed proposes tax incentives for companies cooperating with it. i therefore voted against this.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the drive to ever closer union is a major concern for us and many of our constituents. we are against the centralisation of powers in brussels and the transfer of sovereignty from the member states to eu level. foreign and defence policy has so far remained the prerogative of member states, with less far reaching eu interference than in other areas. sections of this report called for increases in, or support of, eu foreign, security and defence policy, which is something we do not support.
in writing. ‒ as we reflect on further attempts to make defence powers a pawn in europe’s integrationist agenda, i would like to draw attention to positive developments toward safeguarding communities in my constituency, northern ireland, from terrorist and criminal threats. despite prolonged and self-interested efforts by nationalists and republican politicians in northern ireland to block the full operation of the uk national crime agency, i am happy to report that it has now been rolled out fully in our province. no longer will organised crime gangs be allowed off the hook. these new powers will provide crucial support to tackle fuel laundering, illicit trade, trafficking, other forms of organised crime and terrorist activity in our region of the united kingdom. this is what national security should be about – local and national agencies with tailored skills and a unique insight working together to combat threats to national security.
in writing. ‒ i support initiatives that could improve the efficiency and cost effectiveness of csdp missions. the report, however, offers ideas which could interfere in what should be member state competence.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because i believed it moved into areas that should be member states’ competence.
in writing. ‒ we need to provide a renewed focus on where the common security and defence policy (csdp) can best contribute to global security, by using a comprehensive approach to tackling conflict and by complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. we support initiatives that could improve the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of csdp actions. however, we do not agree with proposals asking for an increase in common funding for military actions, duplicating of the work of nato, or interfering in what should be member state or industry-driven activity. i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ we need to provide a renewed focus on where the csdp can best contribute to global security, by using a comprehensive approach to tackling conflict and by complementing nato, which is the cornerstone of european defence. we support initiatives that could improve the efficiency and cost effectiveness of csdp actions. however, we do not agree with proposals asking for an increase of common funding for military actions, duplicating of the work of nato, or interfering in what should be member state or industry—driven activity. we therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while i support initiatives which could improve the efficiency and cost—effectiveness of csdp missions, this report offers ideas which could interfere in what should be member state competence. therefore, i abstained on this report.
madam president, i abstained on this report given that i have concerns over the effectiveness of measures proposed in it for the eu common security and defence policy which are similar to the ones i have already expressed in other reports. but i do want to underscore that it raises a number of critical issues that i would like to see thoroughly addressed when the eu heads of government meet during the june summit on defence. a core issue for me is the cyber area, which already today is crucial for ensuring our security, yet it is still too often considered as a threat in the distant future. as a result, we are collectively far behind the curve on making strategic use of cyberspace to defend the rights and interests of our citizens on the global scene. the us, year after year, identifies cyber-attacks as the most serious threat to national security, but in europe it is hardly on the radar.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. the report advocates a need to develop a european market for defence equipment and services. while at times it attempts to justify this by referring to member state and eu security, it is clear its concern is for the european military industry itself. the report states that, ‘the eu 28 member states are still the world’s number two when it comes to both defence spending and arms exports; believes that this fact shows that the eu member states and the union still play a key role in global arms sales and defence procurement.’ the report also calls for eu funding opportunities for defence—related projects, which i oppose. we have seen the terrible effects of the military industrial complex elsewhere, and its role in perpetuating conflict. i am opposed to the militarisation of the eu and the use of irish or eu taxpayers’ money for the eu military industry. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the common security and defence policy in principle: the uk is a member of nato and this arrangement works very well for ensuring national security. the tone of this report pushes us ever closer to a fully-fledged eu army and indeed proposes tax incentives for companies cooperating with it. i therefore voted against this.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report because we do not support the formation of eu military capabilities and reject eu interference in the defence, security and foreign affairs policy of member states. the split vote on article 1 calls for the member states to meet defence treaty obligations. although ukip would ensure that the uk at least meets the 2% nato target, this further interference of the eu in domestic policy sets a dangerous precedent for further powers to be transferred to eu level.
in writing. ‒ the ecr believes defence policy must always remain a matter of national sovereignty. we do not agree with the suggestion that defence spending should be co-ordinated and we continue to resist moves that may undermine nato and weaken our links with international defence partners, especially the us. we do recognise the importance of having an innovative and expanding defence industry, but we believe this should be brought about by efforts by individual governments to meet the recommended 2% of gni spend.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my s&d colleagues, supported this report as it proposes initiatives that could improve the efficiency and cost—effectiveness of csdp missions. there are, however, proposals within the text that i am concerned about, including calls to expand common costs for financing military missions and supporting eu tax incentives for cooperation and pooling of capabilities.
in writing. ‒ i support improving the competitiveness of the defence industry, stimulating innovation and growth. the report, however, offers ideas which could interfere in what should be member state competence.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because i believed it moved into areas that should be member states’ competence.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. cooperation between strategic partners is essential for european security of supply, and hence encourages the commission and the member states to take defence procurement into account when negotiating international trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of improving the competitiveness of the defence industry, which in turn stimulates innovation and growth. however, this report contains measures which could interfere in what should be member state competence, and therefore i abstained.
madam president, one of the main topics that will be discussed at the g7 is greece, but even a high-school economics student could tell you what is wrong in greece. greece is a member of a currency that does not work for a country with its economic profile, and none of the debates, promises or strategies the g7 will discuss will change this fact. the us delegation to the g7 has expressed concern that greece could turn to russia, but can you blame a country that has been economically martyred on the altar of the euro for looking for alternatives? when you look at the real human suffering in greece, when you look at youth unemployment, when you see soup kitchens and rocketing suicide rates, then russia could seem like a realistic option. indeed, russia and its partners china, india and brazil, have set up the bric network, which is providing an important alternative pillar of political leadership in our world, in comparison to the g7. for example, the bric countries have swept the oceans of somalia almost entirely of pirates; they have pioneered high-yield crops in africa; they have built infrastructure projects in some of the world’s poorest countries. meanwhile, the g7 pontificates on the world’s problems and it is mostly talk and not walk. it is the old world versus the new, and the old is losing. and if the best that we can come up with is threats against greece then maybe the g7 needs a rethink. world leadership is shifting to the bric nations and we have a choice. either we engage constructively with these powers, or watch as more countries flock to bric. if we continue on the road we are on, i fear that greece might just be the first of many. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – absolutely – i totally and utterly agree with you. greece is trapped within a prison of a currency that it should not be in, and if greece wants to get itself sorted, if we were good europeans, we would support greece. greece needs to set its own interest rates, set its own exchange rates, get its exports moving, and the only way it can do that is by leaving the euro and going back to the drachma.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur for the fine work that he has done on this report, the shadow rapporteurs and all involved. it has been a pretty good way of working together. at the end of last year rumours persisted that the proposals for the merger between the school fruit and vegetable scheme and the school milk scheme faced the chopping block. while the desire for better regulation is of course to be welcomed, the commission has not completely withdrawn the proposals but instead left them in limbo pending the results of an internal evaluation. i welcome the commissioner’s comments on that today and i hope we do get a final resolution. while parliament has decided to proceed with its consideration of the scheme, and i think rightly so, rather than pause knowing the carpet may or may not be pulled from under our feet, this is ultimately not a satisfying business that we have been involved in. i find the uncertainty disappointing. there are a number of elements of the commission’s proposals that are to be welcomed. the merging of both schemes under a joint legal and financial framework could reduce the administrative burden on bureaucracy for the schools that wish to utilise the scheme. this is welcome news for many schools in my own constituency that are currently using the school milk scheme. over 70% of nursery, primary, and special-education schools are making milk available to their pupils. and i think that is to be welcomed. we must ensure that the joint legal framework reduces red tape. for instance, i welcome amendments that would prevent schools from needlessly filling in two separate sets of forms in order to apply. at the committee stage i submitted amendments to broaden the scope of the dairy products that would also be included in the scheme, such as yogurts and cheese. i consider this to be very important for the dairy sector, not only in this current crisis. i also believe schoolchildren should be better educated about the supply chain – the fact that food just does not come off a supermarket shelf. i think it is very important that they are aware of the food chain. my group will be voting against. i personally will be voting in favour because i believe this to be a good report.
mr president, i very much support this proposal to merge the school milk and fruit and vegetable schemes because it is in the interests of children, of local farmers and producers, and of local communities and economies. the long-running school milk scheme has been a success, but for the seventh year now children in my constituency in wales have missed out on the school fruit scheme because the uk opted out. learning healthy eating at school is essential. obesity is a growing problem and schemes like this can help us tackle it. children in wales and the uk lose out so that the government can maximise the uk treasury rebate. i want my constituents to have the same opportunities as the some 8 million children and 54 000 schools in other countries who receive free fruit and vegetables each year, benefiting their health and their education. i will continue to work for the adoption of this scheme in wales.
mr president, give a man a fish and you will feed him for a day. teach a man to fish and you will feed him for life. eur 250 million a year sounds a great deal of money, but divided between the 55 million under-14-year-olds at school in the eu it is worth eur 4.5 per year per child, much of which will be absorbed by administrative costs. on a daily basis, this would give a child, for example, about a thimble-full of milk each school day and a sliver of an apple. in order for this to be meaningful, the member states would have to co-finance by at least tenfold and, in that case, this whole subject should be within their control in the first place. the british pro-rata share of the milk side of this budget would be about gbp 10 million, which of course would cost the british taxpayer twice that. i believe british taxpayers’ interests and british agriculture’s interest would be much better served if this cash stayed in the uk and was used to finance school trips to farms, which in turn could use this budget to provide facilities for visitors, including a classroom and a competent lecturer. children should watch cows being milked and perhaps bottle-feed a calf. they should have the opportunity to pick some fruit and they should have the opportunity to ride safely on mobile vegetable-picking and packing rigs, observing people who really do understand what the word ‘work’ means. now that would be an education!
mr president, i support school milk schemes. they are an excellent source of calcium for growing bodies and they are a valuable way to promote the milk and dairy industry. i also recommend encouraging children to regard fruit and vegetables as an invaluable part of a healthy diet. however, worthy as those aims may be, i am not convinced that it should be the responsibility of the european union, and in particular the common agricultural policy, to provide the money. surely, the basis of eu expenditure has to be spending only where there is a common interest that cannot otherwise be achieved at member state level. the court of auditors has shown that funding these schemes through the eu budget is expensive to administer and represents poor value for money. we should leave it to the member states.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, only nine days ago my colleague, nathan gill, stood up in plenary in strasbourg and said that the developing world needs trade not aid, and this week we have been given a case study that proves precisely that point. eritrea, as a state, has a terrible record on freedom of the press and human rights abuses. in fact in 2011 the country refused to grant entry to an independent un reporter out of fear of what they might find, and only this week the european union has called on eritrea’s president to free reporters, bloggers and prisoners alike. but the benign reality is that the eu suffers from its own hypocrisy and delusion on what development aid might achieve. the eu on one hand condemns dictators, and then gives countries aid. it then wants to tackle migration into europe, but implements harmful policies. it throws money around without any accountability. and all too often, sanctions are applied that harm the actual innocent and do not deal with the guilty. only this week, the african economic output report stated that eritrea’s gdp has gone up to 2.1%, and that is almost double where it was in 2013. this country is rich and could easily mine gold, iron, copper and nickel – and those are resources that most countries would dream of having available to them. what eritrea now needs is to be coerced to diversify its economy away from a completely mining-based economy. the people need jobs, they need job security, and most of all, they need an opportunity to escape poverty. foreign aid just does not tackle that. we have got to be very careful where we apply this foreign aid and what we ask for it from this country. i do not believe that we are actually taking the right steps towards that goal.
mr president, earlier this year malawi, to its very great credit, banned forced child marriage. this was a tremendous victory in a country which has one of the highest rates of forced child marriage in the world. one of the leading campaigners for this tremendous change was an 18-year-old woman called memory banda, who started her advocacy on the issue when her own sister was married at the age of 11 to a man in his early thirties. the sister is now 16 and she has three children. memory herself has said, ‘marriage is often the end for girls like me, but, if our leaders will invest in us and give us the chance to be educated, we will become women who create a better society for everyone.’ however, passing laws is not the end of the story, for even when child marriage is illegal it is still common. in india it is illegal for girls under 18 to be married, yet unicef estimates that around 47% of girls in india were married before they turned 18. simply changing the law is not enough: information, awareness and education campaigns are crucially important to stamp out this terrible practice. we are all agreed on this, and the eu has a real role to play here – to go out and do absolutely everything we possibly can to end this barbaric and cruel practice.
madam president, the issue of forced marriage does not just affect children living on the african and asian continents. it is happening across europe, and the silence surrounding it has many parallels with the exploitation and trafficking of young girls across many towns in northern england. uk law imposes a maximum sentence of seven years on the perpetrators of this crime, and it is simply not a strong enough deterrent. girls are afraid to speak out, others dismiss it as a cultural practice, and our social services in england, the police and the politicians dare not speak up for fear of being labelled racist. with open borders, human traffickers have free rein to exploit children. in 2013, over 600 children were trafficked into britain for exploitation and forced marriage. this modern—day form of slavery is on the rise, and the eu has given the perpetrators a helping hand: by not allowing member states to control their own borders and check criminal backgrounds, the eu is enabling this crime to escalate. the uk can at least check an individual’s passport. mainland europe is prevented from even doing that. criminal trafficking gangs operate with impunity due to eu free movement rules, so whilst members are very good at voicing their outrage at these crimes, they are fundamentally unable to implement anything practical to actually stop them.
in writing.– i am appalled that this practice is continuing in the 21st century. young girls should never be forced into marriage, and indeed no one should. this practice causes severe psychological scars for those who are often too vulnerable to end such marriages. we all need to do everything we can to end this appalling situation. marriage is a deep bond between two people who love one another: the entire institution of marriage is cheapened by so-called ‘forced marriages’.
mr president, professional football was born in my constituency 127 years ago, when aston villa and stoke city and the mighty west bromwich albion got together with a handful of other football clubs to form the football league. the beautiful game went on to become the world’s dominant sport, but now the beautiful game is being dragged through the mud, brought into disrepute by sepp blatter’s disgraceful chairmanship of fifa, which has become a discredited organisation, riven as we now know with criminality and money-laundering at the very top. it defies belief and possibility that the autocratic ‘don blatterone’ never knew what was going on – in any other organisation he would have been gone decades ago. ordinary football fans that i represent and that we all represent are outraged and feel tainted by what is going on. what is the matter with these people, when 60 migrant workers a day are said to die for every game of the qatar world cup? and what is the matter with us that we stand by and do nothing about it?
mr president, as a direct consequence of the conservative party’s general election victory, the united kingdom is now facing an in-out referendum on its european union membership. this state of affairs is bad news for the uk agriculture sector, it is bad news for the uk food sector, and it is bad news for jobs in the united kingdom. 60% of uk food exports go to the eu. if the current free trade arrangement was replaced with the current eu tariff levels, then the uk agriculture and food sectors would be looking at tariffs ranging from 11% to 48%. even at the lowest tariff level, this would kill the competitiveness of the uk agricultural and food sectors stone dead. the time has now come for the uk farming and food sectors to rise up and, with a clear, loud and distinctive voice, make the case for britain staying in the european union. the eu is good for the uk’s agriculture sector, it is good for the uk’s food sector, and it is good for uk jobs.
mr president, how am i supposed to vote on this? we have a subsidy scheme which should be the preserve of individual nations. this is taxpayers’ money being spent at eu level, but it is already in the eu’s hands, and this proposal could possibly make the scheme less bad than it is at the moment. so i supported some of the amendments, for example to make sure that it refers only to fresh fruit and vegetables and not to processed and chocolate milk and everything else that we have heard about this evening. then i have to consider as well the uk’s interests, as it seems we are in the milk scheme but not in the fruit and vegetables scheme, yet it is all bunched together in one vote. so if i vote ‘no’ i do absolutely nothing to make a bad scheme better. if, on the other hand, i vote ‘yes’, then i am legitimising the idea that these things should be happening at a european union level, not by individual nations. so what else can i do but abstain?
in writing. ‒ the proposal to streamline two separate schemes, the school milk scheme and the fruit and vegetables in school scheme, makes sense. the promotion of healthy eating among children is very important. recognising that these schemes are in place, parliament should be endeavouring to make them as uncomplicated and as fair as possible. funds should be allocated according to the proportion and numbers of children in each country, and should be targeted at promoting local produce. the promotion of fresh produce, and especially the consumption fresh milk, which is in decline, should be prioritised. the principle of subsidiarity should mean that key decisions are made at national and regional level, as it is here that the needs of local communities can best be addressed. i have a fundamental disagreement with committee amendments which were adopted and which support more funds being spent on advertising eu involvement in the scheme, rather than on the promotion of healthy eating. this is not the most beneficial use of funds. i supported amendments calling for fairer and more efficient use of the funds, allowing flexibility at national level. however, these were not adopted. therefore i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the tarabella report because it is high time we invested more effort in promoting healthy eating and the consumption of local foodstuffs among children. it is deeply worrying that the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk has been declining across the eu, including in the uk. if we want to protect the health of our children, we need to make sure they are provided with healthy foodstuffs and properly educated about healthy eating habits.
in writing. ‒ s&d members of the european parliament voted in support of the decision on the opening of, and mandate for, interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. there is an increasing incidence of child obesity as a result of consumption habits geared to highly processed foods. union aid to finance the supply to children in educational establishments of selected agricultural products should do more to promote healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s mandate for negotiations with the council, as the proposed programme is a good initiative that has the potential to foster healthy habits at an early stage in life.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the reason for this is very simple. in 24 hours, in possibly one of the smallest regions represented in this parliament, i had over a thousand members of the public contact me about this report. deputies all over this chamber have seen that the public care about this issue, and there are actually some quite complex issues that need to be considered and discussed. i do not believe that we can do justice to the transatlantic trade and investment partnership in under three hours of debate. we have many, many speaking time requests from people within this group and others across parliament, so let us show the public that we care too, and give ourselves the chance to subject this report to a little bit more scrutiny.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, we would be happy to start the debate earlier, at 8 a.m.
mr president, the annual exercise to establish the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector helps ensure that farmers’ incomes are protected in the event of natural disasters and price volatility. the reserve for crises should be considered as one element of a safety net which guards against the elements that farmers cannot normally anticipate. the crisis reserve is financed out of the envelope available for direct payments in the given year. this is a fair provision which takes into account that the eu budget, already strained in times of economic hardship, should not accommodate additional spending in case of an emergency in the sector. the functioning of the crisis reserve is surely a good opportunity to look more closely at the risk management potential of the cap, which should pay more attention to providing solutions to potential future problems. instead of concentrating on income support, we should make more use of the funds intentionally set aside in order to manage the detrimental effects of natural disasters, outbreaks of disease or trade embargoes. the cap budget is surely big enough to respond to the needs of the sector. it is all about allocating these resources carefully, wisely and prudently.
mr president, i appreciate and understand the intent of a solidarity crisis reserve. however, this group did not support it at the outset: we felt that there might be a better, more equitable way to fund this provision. i have no problem with the lowering of the threshold for contributions, but rather i must express my concerns about the impact on producers in my own country. it is a country which, because of its farm structure, has fewer larger farms than most of the other countries in the european union. that means individual producers – producers who are already hard pressed – will carry a greater burden of cost than average farmers. this is a contribution towards a fund which, historically, their own government has declined to access.
mr president, i did not support setting up the crisis reserve as part of the common agricultural policy reform. i see it as more of the same old approach to agriculture policy. there are many other measures available to the commission before it needs to top-slice money from certain farmers in certain member states. more money is not always the answer. a better, more flexible and more liberal cap, which allows farmers to be globally competitive, is the answer to crises and will stop them having an effect in the future. however, my real problem with this is the unfairness of the funding measures. a threshold of eur 2 000 means that member states with the largest farms will contribute the most. three member states will not contribute at all. i do not see that as solidarity. if we are going to have a crisis reserve – and, as i say, i do not think we should – all farmers should contribute. otherwise, this looks like a money grab from some member states to others. this is certainly how uk farmers will see it, as they are being asked to fund disproportionately a crisis reserve that they are unlikely ever to benefit from.
mr president, the one point we are all clear about is that there is a lack of clarity as to the rules for the disbursement of this fund. but i can make a suggestion here, and i see commissioner hogan is turning round to have a look at me – well, i am rather flattered: thank you very much. british farmers are sustaining a 15% pay cut due to the weakness of the euro. why is the euro so weak? because it is being used by countries which never should have been allowed to join a single currency in the first place. this may not constitute an act of god, which is what the fund should be used for, but it is an act of the commission – an institution that has assumed the mantle of deity and can accordingly be included in this definition. this fund could therefore be used as a replacement for what used to be called the ‘green pound’. this would help to offset the sharp drop in direct payments to british farmers and go a small way to compensating for loss of export opportunities and the undercutting of their domestic price by cheap eurozone imports. this is not an argument for the uk itself to join the euro, and i am sure that is what you will try and convince us to do, commissioner – but, had we done so, british taxpayers would be impoverished to the extent that they would struggle to finance the cap at all. it is convenient for member states to forget that the uk is a massive net contributor to the cap, and our taxpayers should have the comfort of knowing that their money is at least being used to support domestic agriculture and local food, as opposed to propping up a failed economic project. commissioner, i will stay on in the debate as long as i can – but i have to go to an agricultural meeting, as you know – because i would like to hear what you have got to say about all of that.
mr president, the fact is that crises and market difficulties occur in real places to real people. even if emergency funds are needed (and they may be), they should be managed and used at a local level. this is another area where, even if the idea makes sense – emergencies happen, help is needed – it should be implemented at member state and local level. our irish colleague was right earlier: member states have the solution. we should not be trying to do it for the entire 500 million population stretching from arctic tundra, through shropshire dairy farms to sicilian olive groves. when will the eu understand that big is bad, small is beautiful and micro is magic? bring it down to the local level: that is what we want.
in writing.– these matters should never be dealt with at european union level. i am not opposed to the principle of having appropriate contingency funds, but i do believe that countries could enact such a scheme directly themselves with far less bureaucracy, and at a much more appropriate level.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms noichl, for her report, which represents a key input in setting our future priorities in the area of equality. the commission’s commitment in this respect is as strong as ever. equality between women and men is a fundamental value, an objective of the european union and also a driver for economic growth. it is the commission’s firm intention to continue to promote equality in all eu activities, internal and external, as required by the treaty. my staff have started a consultative process with major stakeholders and the broader public, as all their views and experience are very important in terms of shaping our future activity. i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, for its contribution to the forum on the future of gender equality in the european union, organised in april this year. we are also cooperating closely with the member states and other important stakeholders such as the social partners and civil society. we are interested in an inclusive process, taking advantage of the expertise of others. let me highlight the areas where i believe we need, together, to step up our efforts: achieving economic independence in equality; the eradication of gender-based violence; and the defence and promotion of women’s rights and gender equality at global level. these correspond to a large extent to the priorities identified in your report. if we want women to be economically independent, we need to address the existing gender gaps, be they in pay, participation or pensions. as said in your report, we must also not ignore the high number of women living in poverty and social exclusion. our tools are the monitoring of the situation in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the possibility of proposing country specific recommendations; the implementation and enforcement of the eu legislation; and the exchange of good practices and mutual learning. we should reflect on a new approach to tackling work-life balance. both women and men should be able to participate fully in the labour market while not giving up on their family life. the challenges are to improve the accessibility of care facilities and the effective provision of family leave and flexible working arrangements, paying particular attention to the participation of men. also, we still need more women in decision-making positions, be it in companies, in the economy or in politics. negotiations on our directive, setting a 40% target for the under-represented sex on company boards, are an absolute priority for us, and we need to conclude this proposal. our approach is merit-based, putting the focus on a fair and transparent selection process, which will bring about significant change. as to violence against women, one in three women in the eu has experienced violence. we have to find policy responses that bring about a real improvement in the lives of women and girls in europe. this includes looking into the possibility of the eu acceding to the istanbul convention. i strongly believe that this council of europe convention is a powerful common framework for combating violence against women. when addressing violence against women we need to combine the internal and the external perspective. i will work closely with colleagues mogherini and mimica to tackle the phenomenon of female genital mutilation (fgm), including beyond the eu. we will look at all available means of ensuring gender equality: legislation and its effective implementation, funding of projects and campaigns, and gender mainstreaming with specific measures. we also need a monitoring system with clear indicators so as to make ourselves accountable to eu citizens. i count on your support in working together to achieve equality between women and men. it is very important that the european parliament sends a unified and strong signal on the future of gender-equality policies in the eu.
blue-card question.– would my colleague agree with me that it is an utter disgrace that a debate on something as crucial as this is attended so poorly? it looks like there are no more than 20 or 30 people in the entire chamber.
blue-card question.– the european union talks a lot about the principle of subsidiarity: that decisions should be made at the closest possible level to the citizen. it seems to me that we have something here where the decision is being taken further away. do you agree with me that these matters really should be decided at a national level?
blue-card question.– feminism – you were just talking about feminism then, and discrimination. i just would like your opinion, please. if a gentleman, a male mep, had stood up in this parliament and said that men do not want to live in a europe of old women, what would the feminists amongst us have said? i am sure there would be uproar – but that is just what you have said, and i personally find that equally offensive. i think discrimination has to work both ways, and as a feminist you cannot stand there and make statements like that without then having the contrary, backing it up. so to my mind, to say that women do not want to live in a europe full of old men is just the same as a man standing up and saying a man does not want to live in a europe full of old women.
mr president, the resolution urges the adoption of a directive for the balanced representation of men and women on boards. this is a piece of eu legislation that allows for sanctions such as the dissolution of a company just because it has not succeeded in reaching the arbitrary target imposed by the european union. you do not fight discrimination with discrimination. bringing in quotas is demeaning for women – the women who have worked hard and made it to the top of their professions. it should not matter what gender you are or what your ethnic background or religion is: if you are the best-qualified person for that job, you should get it. but with the instigation of these policies, people could look around the boardroom and question whether a colleague is the best person for the job, or if they simply obtained their position because their gender ticked the right boxes on the eu checklist. paragraph 56 calls for the commission to create best-practice models for sex and relationship education for young people. paragraph 60 urges the commission to implement sex education programmes in schools and ensure counselling and access to contraception. it is outrageous, absolutely outrageous, that the eu seeks to interfere with the member states’ education systems, especially with regard to sex education. and, to top things off, in the explanatory statement you even say who should be doing the housework. if i can quote directly from it: ‘men will have to devote more time to the housework’. what kind of organisation interferes to this extent in the private lives of people, their marriages and their partnerships? it is up to adults in the privacy of their own homes to decide who does what. it is not the place of any government, and it certainly is not the place of eu bureaucrats to decide who does and who does not do the dishes. in 1975 the uk voted to join a europe of free trade and friendship, not a european union of political control and social engineering. this is yet another reason to vote ‘no’ in the upcoming uk referendum. let us regain our freedom and independence from these meddling eu bureaucrats.
mr president, i would also like to thank mrs noichl for her comprehensive and very valuable report. much earlier in the debate, mrs arena said that we need to send a clear message to ourselves, to the european union, the commission and the citizens about gender equality. i think there is one particular issue, which has already been mentioned, which is very important: that is the whole matter of trafficking in human beings, which is one of the most lucrative criminal activities in the world today. of course, the vast majority of victims of trafficking are women. eighty percent of victims of trafficking in the eu are women, and most of them, as we know, are trafficked for the purposes of sexual exploitation. we really must do everything that we can to end what is, in effect, modern slavery. we all know there is a directive on human trafficking, but the problem with this has been its implementation. in her report, maria noichl calls on member states to fully implement the anti-trafficking directive. we must do everything that we can in our own member states to make sure that this is happening, because this is one of the areas where the eu has huge competence. it is the only organisation that can deal with it, because human trafficking is something which has to be done across borders, across countries and across nationalities. we know that our citizens want this, and i know it as a representative of london, which is one of the destinations for trafficked women. therefore i think we have a particular responsibility, not only in terms of gender equality in itself but particularly in human trafficking. i would say that human trafficking is important for gender equality because the women involved are poor and vulnerable. therefore i ask all of you to support the report and vote for it tomorrow.
mr president, this report focuses on many important issues. it focuses on tackling domestic violence, providing access to essential skills and the need to support a work-life balance for young mothers. i fully support efforts to make 2016 the european year for combating violence against women, and i regret that in recent correspondence with the commission it has seemed to lack urgency in making this a reality. i would recommend to the house lord morrow’s human trafficking bill in northern ireland as a good example of national legislation which tackles this evil that is primarily directed against women in our society. however, much of the report we are discussing is a matter of subsidiarity, and it is wrong for this parliament and european bureaucrats to seek to intrude into national life in this way. as a member of this parliament from the united kingdom, i am looking forward to the debate in our forthcoming referendum, and i have no doubt that this kind of interference will be high on the list of people’s concerns.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague maria noichl for the report and also all the men who have spoken in support of these progressive amendments today. tomorrow’s vote will determine much of the eu’s gender equality strategy for years to come, affecting the lives of more than 250 million women and also 250 million men, and i am proud to be a good mother to two of them. from this chamber we must issue a strong and ambitious call for action in view of a reality where one out of three women suffers from physical or sexual violence, the largest-scale violation of human rights in europe. that is a reality we simply cannot accept. we need to have a clear strategy supporting victims of violence and providing access to justice, and to have member states in the eu implement the istanbul convention on combating violence against women. we must also address the social causes of violence. we must call upon member states to implement strategies on education for gender equality and for sex and relationship education. educating children and young people to respect one another, educating for reciprocity and consent, is the key to combating the sexist cultural attitudes that enable violence. we must call for education against gender stereotypes, homophobia and transphobia. the representation of women in the media, in culture and in the arts is also crucial for combating violence and for gender equality in general, empowering women through positive role models, raising awareness of the diversity of gender roles, telling the stories of survivors of violence and of women’s success stories in the fields of science, technology, business and society at large. we must also look to raise awareness and hear the stories of women in marginalised communities and their daily struggles: women asylum seekers, migrants, women in rural communities, roma, minority women, women with disabilities, women in rural communities, carers, lgbti, and women with mental health conditions. any gender equality strategy must include all of these.
madam president, in paragraph 64 this report calls for compliance with gender equality to be considered a criterion for all eu-funded culture, education and research programmes and asks the commission to include a specific area of gender research within the horizon 2020 programme. we know that women are severely under-represented in science, technology, research and the digital sector. for example, and i quote, ‘often there are more ipads in the room than there are women’. it is shameful. in the uk women make up under 30% of the information and communications technology workforce, comprising around 20% of computing graduates and 10% of app developers. there is forecast to be a labour shortage of stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) jobs of around 7 million by 2025, and women only make up 24% of science and engineering professionals. we know this is because women drop out of stem and it subjects very early in the education process. female participation in it apprenticeship programmes and computer science degrees is only 21% and 19% respectively. in secondary education, where girls choose their own subjects, only 8% of girls in the uk choose computer studies. so the eu has a social, moral and economic duty to ensure a gender focus and equal gender participation in stem sectors. more women in science and technology is good for the economy. it is good for society and, above all, it is the right thing to do because it gives women and girls a choice about how they want to lead their lives. the eu can help to achieve this in this report today by voting for it and ensuring gender issues are mainstreamed in the horizon 2020 programme.
blue-card question.– i agree with you, mr szejnfeld, that educating children and young people is key to achieving gender equality, and especially to ending violence against women. teaching boys and girls to respect one another is really important. but do you not think that the representation of women and of girls and boys in the media is also a problem, and that we need to address that at the same time as having policies addressing education? in other words, do we not need to address both these things as a priority?
madam president, we talk about equality post 2015. let me take you back to a time when a young girl grew up during the second world war in england. she was from a lower class background than most of the rulers we have ever had in england. she grew up to win a record number of elections in our country; she defeated the hard left in our country; she defeated the soviet union and won the cold war. she went on to fight for liberty and freedom and, at every step of the way, margaret thatcher never once had an eu directive or a helping hand or a quota. so, in the spirit of freedom that mrs thatcher put forward, when you speak of gender quotas for business, sex education and pc indoctrination in schools, and the amount of housework that men should do being dictated from here, well, as the lady would say, ‘no, no, no!’
madam president, the second reading of an eu referendum bill will take place tomorrow in the british house of commons. it looks as though the referendum will occur next year. until then, david cameron has said he will focus on trying to renegotiate britain’s relationship with the eu. labour meps have been fighting for many years to reform europe. we have argued that the eu budget must focus more on promoting jobs and growth; that national parliaments should engage more with eu policymaking; and that where eu regulations are not working, they must be changed. but cameron is taking britain’s name in vain in these negotiations. his plans include abandoning the tightening-up of the posted workers directive, making wage—undercutting worse, not better. he is also trying to dilute forms of protection in the working time and agency workers directives and the social chapter. yes, we need eu reform, but we need reform that works for employees, for pensioners, for the unemployed and for the vast majority of businesses, which accept the need for a minimum floor of protections at work.
mr president, during the recent uk general election, mr cameron said that scrapping the tampon tax would be quite difficult. it is not quite difficult, it is nigh on impossible. the uk is subject to eu rules on vat which force us to impose a 5% tax on these and many other products. there is nothing anyone can do about it because only the unelected and unaccountable eu commission can propose or begin to amend legislation. so it does not matter how you vote in elections, you cannot vote for anybody that can actually initiate change to eu law. the only way we are going to get rid of this ridiculous tax is for politicians to start listening to the electorate, decide they will do what is best for their voters, not the project, and leave the eu. once we leave the eu we can act swiftly, follow in canada’s footsteps and get rid of this archaic tax on feminine hygiene products.
mr president, my colleague anneliese dodds has already spoken eloquently of what mr cameron is trying to do at the moment, as he scuttles around europe placing demands for so-called reform on the table, trying to find a route between the trivial and the impossible. however, the right wing of his party is trying to push him into making demands that are not in the british national interest, nor in the european interest, but are highly partisan conservative policies that they wish him to impose on the rest of europe. he will only succeed, if he goes down that route, by two rounds of blackmail. in round one he says to other eu countries, ‘accept these changes or we are off, and i really mean it’; and then in round two, if he gets those changes, he says to the british people, ‘you have a choice between what i have negotiated or leaving europe’. it is cameron’s europe or no europe, and at that point he will tell the british people to stay in and accept his terms. i do hope that there are still some pro-european conservatives who dare raise their head above the parapet and argue against him in their own party to make sure that this does not happen.
mr president, in my constituency, the north-east of england, we have a proud sporting heritage. today i would like to mention the sport of boxing. last year two north-east boxers faced each other for a world title for the first time, and today the united kingdom has five world champions at different weights. for young people boxing provides opportunities. a young disadvantaged person who would otherwise find themselves tempted by crime, drugs and violence can find a safe refuge where they can learn about self-discipline, respect and how to properly deal with life’s problems. research shows that boxing is actually far less dangerous than many other contact sports. it is a safe and rewarding activity that is brilliant for physical fitness and has taken many young people to the olympics and beyond. so i would just like to pay tribute to the many trainers who work very hard with young people in my constituency.
mr president, we have heard the report, and now parliament has just five minutes to debate it before the commission sums up. so if you are watching this at home, do not hard-boil an egg, you will miss the whole debate! i have read this 14-page report, and there are two words that i just cannot seem to find anywhere in it: small business. the big problem with intellectual property rights is ensuring that big business cannot submit mountains and mountains of patents on every conceivable issue and then sue any small business which introduces something which happens to look a little bit like one of those patents. particularly in a digital age, i believe this point must not be forgotten.
mr president, by my count there are now just five meps out of 750 left in the chamber for the second debate on intellectual property rights this evening. i speak to further my previous point about remembering the interests of small business. brussels has more lobbyists than washington dc. we have more than 30 000 lobbyists. to put that in context, that is over 40 lobbyists for every one mep. no wonder constituents are complaining to me about big business lobbying, albeit on the issue of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. they are right to do so. i thank the rapporteur for mentioning the interests of small businesses. particularly in fields like software development, small business can be squashed by the legal teams of big business. the people i want to be lobbied by are not the large corporations. i want to be lobbied by my constituents.
blue-card question.– i heard your speech, and there is a lot of huff and puff today about what should be done. do you agree that there is a very limited range of things that the eu mouse can do to affect the russian bear? and when you talk in this harsh rhetoric and tough way, you need to be very careful about what might lead from it – and this is from someone who, i can assure you, is in the pay of nobody whatsoever except the british taxpayer.
mr president, my group hopes that the resolution we adopt on russia will demonstrate european resolve to be united in expressing our concerns about the internal situation in russia and the deterioration in our relations with russia, but united, too, in sending a signal that we want to find a path to return to long-term dialogue and cooperation. this report is not just about what happened in ukraine, but some of the spirit of minsk – which members across this chamber have said they want to see upheld – should also be demonstrated in how members conduct the debate and in the content of it. that is a comment aimed at those who seek simply to criticise russia and ramp up the rhetoric, but it includes those from syriza in greece, to the front national in france, to the united kingdom independence party, whose almost uncritical support for the current position of russia is deeply dangerous. there can be no business as usual with russia. it is right that russia was excluded from the g7 meeting this week, because its politicians and people need to understand that if you break international law, you cannot expect to contribute to international law-making. i have to say that i join the condemnation of the blacklisting of 89 eu politicians. i am worried by the tit-for-tat inclusion of travel bans on politicians on both sides. i would like to see politicians able to travel and to meet together. that is not to deny that we have serious disagreements, but because the only way such disagreements could ever be resolved is through dialogue and negotiation and, with due courtesy, i make the same point to president schulz. that is why russia’s politicians and media should also notice paragraph 4 of the report, where we explicitly say our objective is a return to constructive dialogue and that we set conditions for that, which are both realistic and achievable. it is why we identify in this report not simply the differences but also the shared interests we have with russia. i have just come back from iran, where the russian offer on nuclear enrichment could be a key part of securing a nuclear deal, but where russian exportation of missiles to iran equally threatens a very different future. in syria, too, we want russia to engage and not to block international diplomacy, which recognises the overriding need to end violence and to hold to account those responsible for that violence. if russia does not want to be seen as a military aggressor and as anti-democratic, it must not simply align itself with others who clearly are, and if russia wants to be treated with respect and as a partner – and i reiterate that we would like to return to a situation where that is our relationship – then russia could take a strong step towards that by genuinely engaging with us and other international partners on iran and syria, and in other international conflicts, to demonstrate that cooperation is possible and that interests are indeed shared. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– yes, i do think it is incredibly important to support civil society exchanges, which is why i express concern at the law on so—called ‘undesirable organisations’ and would make the point that the ngos that russia is targeting are not a threat to its constitution, security or defence. they are part of the solution; they are not part of the problem.
blue-card question.– the motivation for sanctions, which you support, is to impose hardship in order to change behaviour. the behaviour that the eu wishes to change is to project its own preferences on russia rather than russia’s preferences on its own people. do you therefore believe that you or the eu have omniscience on democratic values and principles, that you can impose them on any country across the world?
mr president, the tragedy of this foolhardy quest, in the guise of increasingly overt expansion of eu neo-imperialism whilst calling for a greater of role for the european union on the international stage, underlines exactly how you misjudge the shift in global power. your evangelical desire to become a so-called ‘strategic player’ in world affairs leads you to seem oblivious to the need to engage in a real diplomatic approach to secure better lasting eu-russia relations. this extension of the eu’s tentacles eastwards underlines how your most significant foreign policy of recent times has turned out to be an utter failure. you completely underestimated russia’s resolve in eastern europe and now the citizens of eastern ukraine are paying the price for your folly. i agree with you that russia is far from innocent in this crisis, but there is blame on both sides and the eu’s actions have done nothing to promote peace and reconciliation. where are we now after all of this from the self-declared preserver of european peace? in the most dangerous world since the collapse of the iron curtain, nato – which of course has many eu members who are minded and muddled by the eu common foreign, security and defence policies – has for the first time been singled out as a threat in russian defence thinking, leading to increasing penetration into member states’ territories and, alarmingly, a more aggressive nuclear doctrine than ever before. for the first time since 1975, the uk is entering into a debate about our eu membership, at the very time that eu—russia relations are at their lowest ebb and on the back of the british prime minister david cameron’s open call for the european union to stretch, in his own words, from the atlantic to the urals. i wait with bated breath to see whether, unlike in 1975, our politicians will be far more honest about the real intentions of how the eu intends to morph into a federal superpower. one thing is for certain though: history will be your judge. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is a very straightforward answer, frau bildt. when you speak of the balkans war, you spoke of mandates from the united nations, you spoke of mandates through nato; what i am highlighting here is the approach of the european union, which seeks to impose its tentacles further east, at the same time provoking the russian bear. the highlight of this debate – which has been highlighted by herr schulz up there, it has been highlighted by monsieur lebreton at the back, it has been highlighted by signor castaldo – is eu-russia relations. this debate is turning into a love fest for eu expansion, and that... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question.– mr auštrevičius, for the first time i find myself agreeing with you in this chamber – that is quite frightening, isn’t it? – when you say that we seem to be heading back towards a cold war. in that analogy i do believe you are right. but how do we approach the greater diplomatic question? is the answer really more eu expansion eastwards, more association agreements – for example in central asia, on the south-east of russian boundaries? is that only going to exacerbate the situation further and potentially make mr putin even more irate?
mr president, the draft report before us outlines the difficulties in our relationship with russia, from its aggression in ukraine to allegations of corruption and the suppression of fundamental freedoms of speech, the press and political opposition. member states have shown solidarity with those affected through a programme of sanctions, and the uk has supported those. but ultimately a solution needs to be found recognising international law and agreements, and through diplomatic channels. in the run up-to july, when these sanctions will be discussed again, i want very quickly to indicate how destabilising these sanctions have been for agriculture markets across europe, particularly in the dairy and pork sectors. even within my own constituency of northern ireland, product has been refused entry into russia, costing processors there significant amounts of money. amidst sending a message of zero tolerance to russia and solidarity with those impacted by aggression, if sanctions are to continue, the commission must ensure that there is adequate help to sectors across… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the awful reality seems to be that russia is getting away with her aggression – perhaps not surprisingly, given the weaknesses in the eu approach. firstly, the effectiveness of eu sanctions is limited by the fact that they do not restrict the sale of russian gas to europe. to confront russian aggression effectively, certain european countries must wean themselves off reliance on russia for energy – and by the way, we should open the energy chapter with turkey. secondly, we must recognise that it is the transatlantic alliance, embodied in nato, that is the essential guarantor of european security and which is the defence organisation that moscow takes seriously. nato needs to be revitalised. eu meddling in defence risks undermining these efforts and dividing the transatlantic alliance. thirdly, more must be done to discourage countries that are eu member states from doing deals with russia, such as offering naval port facilities, which undermine western security and solidarity.
mr president, the g7 has just wrapped up and, instead of being a participant, russia is now on the receiving end of warnings of further sanctions. it has only itself to thank, and we may indeed need to increase pressure even further. we also need to reflect on the fact that the russian government has not just succeeded in hoodwinking its own population into supporting a policy that is putting the country on a collision course with its neighbours and wrecking its economy, but what is of real concern is that it is also, increasingly, gaining traction in our own member states and even with members in this house by wielding the power of money, energy and disinformation. this may impact our ability to take a strong stance and defend our interests. therefore, only strong yet realistic demands will secure our citizens’ interests. the door must remain open for dialogue, but our red lines should remain strong and clear: no return to business as usual unless the minsk agreements are implemented, the territorial integrity of ukraine is restored and the osce-based security order in europe is respected.
blue-card question.– i agree with you that we must not fight propaganda with propaganda. do you agree with me that, as regards russia, the key is going to be pragmatism rather than political idealism? we all have concerns about the current appalling situation, so do you agree that the real question is: what will make a practical difference?
mr president, in 1999 putin swept to power in russia, offering to bring order to the chaos, and we thought we would see russia becoming part of a western, democratic system. this was in the heady days when we were still busy celebrating the end of the cold war. in our haste, it seems that we overlooked some of the small print that putin had included in the text. now we can see that his real goal was to recreate, by force if necessary, a crony capitalist version of the soviet union. where putin has not succeeded in bullying his neighbours into joining the eurasian customs union, he has spread war and chaos. in 2008 he invaded georgia and now he is invading ukraine, after annexing crimea. such ambitions, as recently declared by the g7, must have clear and serious repercussions in our relations with russia. i have always been a strong supporter of eu sanctions, which must continue for as long as a threat to ukraine remains. putin rages against a unipolar world: what he intends, in reality, is the unravelling of the post-war settlements, based on the rule of law and human rights, in favour of the ‘might is right’ dogma.
madam president, as always with these budgetary considerations, it is put to us in rather technical language and it is easy to lose sight of the quantity – the sums – that we are talking about. the human brain is not designed to deal with billions. these are for us astronomical figures which evolution was not intended to assist us to picture. so let me try. the uk net contribution last year to the eu budget was gbp 9.8 billion and the gross contribution was gbp 19.2 billion. that is enough to build 36 nhs hospitals or, if you want to look at it the other way round, it is enough to give the entire country a reduction in their council tax of more than 60%. these are huge figures. i would appeal to the people who are marching against austerity and government cuts to ponder this fact: we have spent more in these contributions than we have saved across the whole of domestic spending with the entire government cuts programme. if ever there was a cost-free reduction, this is it.
in writing. ‒ ukip believes that agricultural subsidies should be a matter for the nation states, not the european union. as a consequence, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the uk’s agricultural policy should be decided by a sovereign parliament at westminster, and not by eu institutions. accordingly, i oppose eu expenditure in this manner.
in writing. ‒ direct payments. while i understand the importance of ensuring budget lines are in place to guarantee direct payments are made to farmers, i am opposed to the fact that all farmers should have to contribute to a crisis reserve that to date has only benefited a select few. for instance, dairy and pig farmers in my constituency, who have been affected by the russian import ban, received no support to deal with the fallout of political actions between the eu and russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it would lead to british farmers contributing a disproportionate amount of their direct payments to fund a crisis reserve which they do not exploit. the adjustment rate for direct payments would only be applied to direct payments per farmer in excess of eur 2 000. farmers throughout much of central and eastern europe receive payments of less than eur 2 000. therefore the burden would fall upon countries such as the uk, which receive higher amounts per farmer.
neena gill (s&d), in writing. ‒ although i do not wholeheartedly agree with continuous support to the common agricultural policy, i did vote in favour of the siekierski report on the adjustment rate for direct payments in respect of 2015, because i believe that if we are legally bound to pay, we should ensure that payments are made in a timely manner. i also believe it is important that the commission set up an agricultural crisis reserve that could provide emergency support to the sector when needed. crucial in gaining my support, however, was the fact that crisis measures undertaken on the basis of this regulation are paid for by the farmers themselves, because it is vital we avoid pressure on additional union financing.
in writing. ‒ with uncertain weather conditions, diseases, pests, exchange rates and other uncontrollable variables, farming is a volatile industry and becoming increasingly so. for this reason, a crisis reserve helps increase investor confidence, it supports our food security and keeps prices for farmers and consumers consistent over the medium term. due to its size, the eu is vulnerable to asymmetric shocks in the agricultural sector but it is this size that also allows the eu to pool its risk. for this reason, farmers, consumers and the market in between benefit from the crisis reserve. however, the concept of pooled risk should also imply a shared contribution to the reserve. what we see with these proposals is an uneven distribution of contributions, if any contributions are made by farmers at all. farmers in the uk are already being squeezed by downward pressure on prices and i believe it is too much to ask them to contribute more than their fair share to the reserve. the commission needs to review how the agricultural reserve is funded as well as the common agricultural policy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour party colleague, voted in favour of this report as it strikes the right balance between protection and remuneration of creators and the public interest in accessing cultural content.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the financing of the cap provides for additional financial support to agriculture in the event of an unforeseen crisis. this is entirely justifiable and has the potential to protect fragile rural communities in any member state in the event of such a crisis. i accordingly voted in favour of this report and condemn the short-sightedness of meps voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is only an approval of an adjustment rate proposed by the commission on a purely technical basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in order to allow for timely distribution of direct payments and provide for the crisis reserve should the agricultural sector be in need of emergency support. importantly, any crisis measures undertaken on the basis of this regulation are paid for by the farmers themselves, with any pressure on additional union financing thus significantly reduced.
in writing. ‒ the eplp voted in favour of the report in order to allow timely distribution of direct payments and provide for the crisis reserve should the agricultural sector be in need of emergency support. importantly, any crisis measures undertaken on the basis of this regulation are paid for by the farmers themselves, with any pressure on additional union financing thus significantly reduced.
madam president, anyone who still clings to the idea that the european union is an association of nations should just look down the list at the topics covered by this gender equality report: pay, workplace rules, violence against women, media portrayals, abortion rights. whatever else this is, it is not an association of states collaborating intergovernmentally. for what it is worth, i voted against, because i do not think any of these things should have to do with brussels. but i have to say that i resent the slightly bullying tone implicit in the debate that, if you are voting against this report, it is because you do not care about violence against women or because you do not care about media portrayals. can we not take it as common ground that everyone in this chamber is concerned about these issues? the argument is about the location of decision—making. on sensitive issues of this kind it should be determined by our national democratic mechanisms and procedures. it is precisely because it is important to us that we want the decisions to be taken not by unaccountable bureaucrats, but by elected representatives whom we can hire and fire.
madam president, i have voted against this report, as it called for the commission to bring in a compulsory quota system for women in the workplace. as an mep who was elected onto my party’s list without a quota and then elected without a quota by the public, i find this demeaning and insulting to all hard-working women up and down the uk. we should live in a meritocratic society where women are encouraged to achieve their goals, and we should address the issues that are keeping women from reaching these goals. we should not treat women as just another number in eu stats, and we certainly should not be forcing businesses and parliaments to have mandatory quotas.
madam president, this chamber has just approved a report with implications on sex education, the traditional family, gender quotas in boardrooms and who does the housework in the house. this is not the responsibility of the state, let alone the super-state. this motion brings further shame onto the eu. i am proud to have voted against this. when the referendum day comes in the uk, i implore the british people not to be fooled by thinking that any of this is about trade. this is not about trade. this is social engineering and an assault on traditional values on an enormous scale. so, when referendum day comes, vote to leave and vote for freedom.
madam president, when britain joined the european union – or ‘common market’ as it was then known – we were told it was a trade agreement. the british people were misled, and thanks to ukip forcing the establishment to hold a referendum we will soon be able to correct that error. the undemocratic european union should not be taking decisions on abortion, whether you like it or not; on sex education in schools, whether you like it or not; on lesbian, gay and transgender roadmaps, whether you agree with them or not or even know what they are; or, indeed, on creating university chairs in gender studies and feminist research – which is a waste of money for people in my constituency who are going to food banks in this recession. i say this as a homosexual who fights for homosexual equality, and as a firm believer in ladies’ rights. but these matters must be decided in our ancient british house of commons and our recently-reconvened ancient scottish parliament. that is why i voted against this ludicrous political-correctness-on-stilts: the eu strategy for women and men. this is the sort of nonsense that demonstrates how out of touch this parliament is with the men and women ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i am sure that a lot of people would not like to see me on the list, but thank you very much. i say that to make a light of humour to fill this chamber. this is an own-initiative report by a member of this house, mrs noichl. an own-initiative report is an opportunity for an mep to freewheel, to create ideas for himself, to make himself look good to people in this chamber and to issue an opportunity for the commission to make rules on people across europe. it is not about gender and equality; it is simply an opportunity for people in the commission to control the nation states of europe. that is why i opposed this particular motion. i support gender equality and i support rights for women, but i believe that they should be controlled from the british parliament. we will have a referendum next year, where the people of britain will have the opportunity to say whether they believe the european union should control their lives or whether the british parliament should control their lives. i believe it is the british parliament.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity requires decisions to be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen. decisions on issues such as quotas in the boardroom are decisions which should be taken by the member states concerned, not by the european union. this report was not in keeping with that principle, and i felt it necessary to vote against – whatever my personal opinions on some of the issues contained within the report. notwithstanding that, the report itself was very mixed: it safeguarded some important rights (which should be done at national level) whilst also proposing dangerous state interference in various areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because of its banal absurdity. it calls for eu interference in the education systems of member states, with specific regard to sex education for children. the eu has no competence in this area, and no right to intervene in this matter. the ridiculous call for re-distribution of household chores between men and women verges on insanity – how can an institution meddle to this extent in the private lives of citizens? finally, the potential dissolution of companies who do not achieve the correct ‘gender balance’ on their boards is dangerous and anti-business.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am an active campaigner raising the issue of equality for the uk’s gypsy and traveller communities, and accordingly support the principle of equality, i voted against this strategy as i feel strongly that the issues of gender equality raised in this manner don’t create a level playing field in relation to individual ability. i was elected to this place in second spot on ukip’s west midlands list, behind my colleague jill seymour. jill was voted to the top of that list in a fair and equal ballot of ukip party members, and accordingly, i have more respect for ladies who achieve on merit, rather than those in similar positions on the ground of gender equality. i believe that it is insulting to successful women that they may be mistakenly looked upon in some quarters as only being in such a position by virtue of legislation. the result of this proposal is accordingly counter-productive.
in writing. ‒ mr president, last month the number of women elected to our national parliament at westminster rose by a third. female mps now represent 29% of the house of commons. this signals positive change and embodies the improvements that we have seen in recent years toward encouraging more women into civic and political life. this report does place focus on many important drivers for change: tackling domestic abuse and other violence against women, focusing on personal development and essential skills to empower women of their accord, and the need to support and work/time balance for young mothers. i fully support efforts to make next year, 2016, the european year on combatting violence against women – and we need a more proactive approach from the commission to realise this. neither i nor my party believes that the eu should have the right to intrude on what are member states’ responsibilities to uphold equality how they see fit. we fully oppose these efforts to promote singular strategies aimed at women only, and in equal measure we oppose the attempts to use the issue of women’s rights as a means of supporting abortion on demand.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it goes far beyond the remit of the femm committee and encroaches upon national competences. this detracts from a number of serious issues concerning women's rights, such as trafficking, sexual exploitation and violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support the noichl report, because i believe the eu should be an engine to secure gender equality across europe. because of inequality, women still earn less money than men for the same job. they are victims of discrimination in their pensions and on the labour markets, and face a higher risk of poverty and social exclusion. women also account for 80% of human trafficking victims. these are issues on which the eu can make the difference, and it boggles the mind that anti-gender radical traditionalist movements have been virulently attacking the report, pushing for a watered-down vision for gender equality instead. i applaud the fact that meps refused to cave in to the pressure and backed clear and ambitious measures put forward by this report, calling for equality for all.
in writing. – the british conservative delegation is pleased to support an alternative resolution to the noichl report. the alternative resolution focused on a number of concerns that prohibit women from full equality: equal pay, discrimination in the workplace, violence against women and media portrayal of girls and women. we are deeply concerned about the direction and content of the noichl report and are unable to support many aspects including: a call for the commission to create an eu model of sex education, claims that women have careers without ʽsignificant progressionʼ, demands on member states to collect and analyse gender-related data when the eu has a dedicated gender agency. whilst some of our concerns are about content, others relate to more profound and ideological reasons based on what we think the eu should and should not be doing. the british conservative delegation is opposed to more eu legislation in the area of social policy. we do not believe that the eu as an institution should accede to international conventions – this is for national governments to do. we believe that matters concerning adoption, criteria for asylum and official information on identity documents are for national governments to legislate on, not the eu.
in writing. ‒ i along with my labour party colleagues voted in favour of this report because i believe the eu can and should be the means of securing gender equality across europe. gender equality and women’s rights were founding principles of the eu and on many issues women still look towards europe for the vindication of their rights. because of inequality, women still earn less money than men for the same job; they can also face discrimination in relation to their pensions and often face a higher risk of poverty than men. this is a very important and timely report. progress on gender equality has been slowing in recent years and this report and the direction it gives our outlook in other areas is vital. we should look at all eu policies with female-tinted lenses; we should assess how eu policies will impact on women and what we can do better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very important and timely report. it sets out the need for a concrete plan of action on gender equality over the coming years. progress on gender equality has been slowing down in recent years and there is clearly scope for a renewed equality agenda. recent research conducted by the european union agency for fundamental rights found that a third of women have experienced physical or sexual violence, so it is really vital that we have in place the laws, financial resources and political will to tackle that. gender inequality pervades almost every part of society, so we must continue to respond in a holistic way and take account of multiple forms of discrimination. maria noichl’s report is very strong in this respect.
in writing. ‒ this report is wide-ranging in its scope and highlights the fact that we have some way to go before achieving gender equality in the eu. the distance to be travelled is perhaps evidenced by the large number of members voting against. i voted in favour and am pleased that the majority of this house did likewise.
in writing. ‒ i am very much pleased of the outcome of the vote. this report calls for an ambitious eu strategy for women’s rights and gender equality for the next five years and sets out ambitious and concrete proposals. today women still earn less money than men for the same job. they are victims of discrimination for their pensions, on the labour markets and face a higher risk of poverty and social exclusion. we must do our best to eradicate such discrimination in europe and beyond. europe can be the engine to promote women’s rights around the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because i believe the eu should actively support and promote strategies that actively strive for gender equality, including an end to the gender pay gap and to discrimination and violence against women.
in writing. ‒ labour meps have led calls for an ambitious eu strategy on gender equality; i voted in favour of the noichl report as it makes a series of relevant recommendations to address shortcomings on key issues like the gender pay gap and the under-representation of women in decision-making.
in writing. ‒ labour meps have led calls for an ambitious eu strategy on gender equality which includes measures to tackle violence against women, the gender pay gap and the underrepresentation of women in public life.
in writing. ‒ i vote with my eplp colleagues in favour of this resolution because it calls for a distinctive roadmap for lgbti rights which is not subsumed into the gender equality strategy, for a binding legislative act on violence against women, and for measures to increase women’s participation in the labour market and improve pay and working conditions. it also supports women’s human rights being included in all eu partnerships and bilateral negotiations and it stresses a number of issues relating to paternity leave, parental leave and flexible working, including 10 days of paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my eplp colleagues in favour of this resolution because it calls for a distinctive roadmap for lgbti rights which is not subsumed into the gender equality strategy, for a binding legislative act on violence against women, and for measures to increase women’s participation in the labour market and improve pay and working conditions. it also supports women’s human rights being included in all eu partnerships and bilateral negotiations and it stresses a number of issues relating to paternity leave, parental leave and flexible working, including 10 days of paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because this is a landmark step in the continuing struggle for a more just europe. the report is a strong call to the commission and member state governments to take action to fight the root causes of violence against women, to promote education for gender equality and to support initiatives empowering women in culture and media, among many other strong policy demands. i am delighted so many colleagues, both men and women, voted for the resolution, and i look forward to seeing what steps the commission will take in response to it.
madam president, in this chamber tomorrow it will be decided whether the transatlantic trade and investment programme goes forward, in the form of an agreement between the eu and the us. it impacts on all citizens across europe and it has huge negative effects, and my constituents in the north-west have concerns, particularly over the nhs. this particular proposal is in exactly the same vein. it wants to give powers to the commission to negotiate deals on intellectual property rights, on behalf of companies in the eu, with non-eu countries. who do you think will benefit from such a deal? the small smart new company in manchester with a bright idea, or the huge multinational, which works on secret eu working committees – will they be the ones who benefit from this particular proposal? i think members know the answer to that, and it gives another reason why the uk should be leaving the european union.
in writing. ‒ i was astonished that there were no speakers scheduled for this debate, but i did contribute to the catch-the-eye session. a debate with just a handful of meps present is not much of a debate. i voted against, partly because this should not be a european union competence, but also because i believe that the rights of small business must be safeguarded and i feel that this report does not do that. finally, i am also concerned about the potential for this report to lead to the european union interfering in third countries in an unacceptable way.
in writing. ‒ the principal thrust of this own-initiative report is that there should be a significant ramping up of, and extension of, powers over the system of enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr). although it asserts that prime responsibility for ipr enforcement rests with each member state’s public authorities, we already have a european patent court, thus suggesting that the eu does not view member states as the best vector for such enforcement. in any event, this will lead to legislation. ukip is opposed to eu legislation, hence i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mosca report on intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries, given that it strikes the right balance between, on the one hand, consumer rights and, on the other, strong rules on ipr protection, which are crucial to protect our creative and manufacturing industries. i also applaud the attention given by the rapporteur to access to medicines and a patient-focused approach to ipr in the medical sector. i must say i am concerned by reports that the commission is taking an increasingly aggressive approach towards countries like india, which excel in the production of high quality generic medicines. they not only comply perfectly with international regulations but are also crucial in ensuring affordable and equal access to high quality medication for wide sections of society. let us not forget that monopolies are one of the main reasons why we do not have effective medicines in the eu to combat antimicrobial resistance, and why there is no treatment for many devastating diseases, like ebola, in the third world. i urge the commission to make sure that medicines are not luxury goods available only to the rich few.
in writing. ‒ i along with my labour party colleagues voted in favour of this report on intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. the report strikes the right balance between consumer rights and strong rules on ipr protection, both of which are necessary if europe’s creative and manufacturing sectors are to thrive. i also support the approach taken by the rapporteur to the issue of access to medicines and a patient-focused approach to ipr in the medical sector. generic medicines are crucial in ensuring affordable access to medication for many sections of society. it is important to ensure that they comply with international regulations and i am pleased that this report notes that there is nothing in ipr rules which would hamper the production of legitimate generic medicines.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on protecting and enforcing intellectual property (ip) rights in third countries because it rightly identifies the need for our external rules to reflect internal developments in intellectual property. in particular, i welcome the emphasis placed on access to medicine. it is vital that nothing in the rules on intellectual property rights inhibits the production and distribution of generic medicines.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the appropriate enforcement of intellectual property rights, and i consider that the eu should adequately safeguard these rights in its interaction with third countries. this report, however, over-emphasised aspects of health and safety in relation to intellectual property rights and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it reflects the position that strong intellectual property rights (ipr) protection is important for our creative and manufacturing industries. it emphasises the importance of distinguishing between counterfeit hard goods and pirated online content. it also cautions that any external rules should reflect our own ongoing internal development of ipr protection. i am also pleased that it emphasises that nothing in ipr rules should hamper the production or block the transit of legitimate generic medicine.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it argues that strong ipr protection is important for our creative and manufacturing industries. the report emphasises the importance of distinguishing between counterfeit hard goods and pirated online content. this was a key flaw in the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) in 2012 and a reason for its rejection. it also cautions that any external rules should reflect our own ongoing internal development of ipr protection. key text on access to medicine has also been adopted to emphasise that nothing in ipr rules should hamper the production or block the transit of legitimate generic medicine.
in writing. ‒ the report reflects the socialist & democrats group’s position that strong ipr protection is important for our creative and manufacturing industries. it emphasises the importance of distinguishing between counterfeit hard goods and pirated online content. this was a key flaw in the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) in 2012 and a reason for its rejection.
in writing. ‒ along with my socialist colleagues i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises the importance of distinguishing between counterfeit hard goods and pirated online content. this was a key flaw in the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) in 2012 and a reason for its rejection.
in writing. ‒ along with my socialist colleagues i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises the importance of distinguishing between counterfeit hard goods and pirated online content. this was a key flaw in the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) in 2012 and a reason for its rejection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, because this report proposes greater european union involvement in the enforcement of intellectual property rights. in particular, i oppose the second half of paragraph 57 of the report. i was astonished that there were no speakers scheduled for this debate, but i did contribute to the catch-the-eye session. a debate with just a handful of meps present is not much of a debate.
in writing. ‒ the principal thrust of this own-initiative report is that there should be a significant ramping up of, and extension of, powers over the system of enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr). although it asserts that prime responsibility for ipr enforcement rests with each member state’s public authorities, we already have a european patent court, thus suggesting that the eu does not view member states as the best vector for such enforcement. in any event, this will lead to legislation. ukip is opposed to eu legislation, hence i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is absolutely imperative that we as legislators provide all possible support to new and existing businesses in order to protect intellectual property. this is particularly important for enterprises in the creative and cultural industries, which in many eu regions, including my own northern ireland, have witnessed a boom and experienced growth in recent years. in our region of the united kingdom, specialist advisors from invest northern ireland – through the department of enterprise – provide businesses with up-to-date help on patents, trademarks, designs and copyright. it is crucial that new enterprises and entrepreneurs have access to financial assistance to secure ipr and thus underwrite their innovative ideas and projects. however this report rightly stresses that raising awareness must not stop with businesses. consumers too must be the subject of information campaigns to deter copyright infringements, counterfeiting and the sale of illicit products in the single market. only when this holistic approach is taken can prospective entrepreneurs have the maximum confidence to enter the market and aid growth in national economies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the svoboda report because i believe it is crucial that we develop an eu action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) that strikes the right balance between protection and the remuneration of creators, the public interest in accessing cultural content, and the needs of industry. conservative parties in parliament have been pushing for ‘market-based solutions’ to be the dominant approach to ipr, but if this approach is applied blindly across the line, how do we ensure affordable access to knowledge for our students, academics, smes and others? also, while proper enforcement of ipr rules is paramount, we should focus on commercial-scale infringements rather than going after private customers and consumers. and we should make sure fundamental rights are protected. the bottom line is that intellectual property is not just a technical, far-from-our-bed issue. it touches upon every aspect of our lives, from the performance of our companies to the viability of our cultural sector, to the education of our children, and that is why i urge the commission to approach this issue with the utmost attention.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report as it strikes the right balance between protection and remuneration of creators and the public interest in accessing cultural content.
in writing. ‒ in protecting intellectual property rights there is always a fine balance between rewarding innovation, on the one hand, and preventing monopoly, on the other. whilst there were aspects of this report i could support, on balance i was unable to vote for all of its conclusions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it strikes the right balance between protection and remuneration of creators, the public interest in accessing cultural content, and the needs of industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it stresses the importance of remuneration of creators in order to ensure a consistent supply of cultural content.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report as it strikes the right balance between protection and remuneration of creators, the public interest in accessing cultural content and the needs of industry.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i would like to thank ms gardini and mr la via. unfortunately our translation failed but it sound very poetic in italian, mr la via, so i was quite impressed with that. 37 out of 192 states have ratified kyoto. that is only a small step; we have got to be doing much more. talking of the notion of steps, i was sharing a platform recently with christiana figueres, the un climate change negotiator, and she, quite presciently, said: ‘you do not win a marathon by taking only one step’. i can think of no better way of stating the obvious, which is that we have many more steps to take – but because a distance is far does not mean we should not be pushing as hard as we possibly can. right now, the scottish government have announced that they have failed to meet their ambitious climate change targets for the reduction of carbon dioxide. that is unfortunate, but we should in no way condemn them for it. rather, we should ask them again how much more they can do to push forward. i am reminded again of a quotation which i think is appropriate: ‘when it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, do not adjust the goals, adjust the steps’ – confucius.
madam president, i would also like to say thank you to our two rapporteurs. i am happy to vote in favour of their position on both files. i would like to say that in my group we believe that it is possible to be ambitious and pragmatic in our approach to greenhouse gas emissions. i do not agree that words are cheap. words, like those expressed at the g7, are important. they set the scene and they should not be belittled or set to one side. we all saw recently the us senate voting against the general scientific advice, grudgingly accepting that climate change existed but denying any anthropogenic connection, and indeed those of us who went on the environment trip to washington saw that at first hand. so these discussions on the road to paris are important. it is important that we set the scene and the tone, and i would like to give my thanks to mr arias cañete for his role in this, because all the feedback i have been getting has been that he has been playing a very strong role on that international stage. so they are important, but i would like everyone to remember that you do catch more wasps with honey than vinegar. let us make sure that the eu rhetoric is ambitious, encouraging, but not filled with recrimination and the language of shame and blame. we should truly have a united front and move forward together.
madam president, despite the fact that there has been no evidence of global warming for the past 15 years, the eu is now ratifying a new agreement to approve yet more ambitious targets for the union and its member states, when burdensome eu regulations and utopian green goals are already ruining our industries and driving a large number of our companies abroad. the rapporteur states that, in order to strengthen its role as a world leader, it is important that the eu supports ambitious targets to combat climate change. but few are now following the eu’s stance, as illustrated by annex b to the kyoto protocol. major polluting countries are abstaining when it comes to committing to the doha amendment. the eu is alone in saddling itself with stringent climate commitments, as other countries are not doing so. major economies have abandoned this obsolete theory – to which some never subscribed – and giving priority to the prosperity of their countries and their people. let us be pragmatic. let us start having a more realistic attitude towards this topic. we need to reinvigorate the declining eu economy with a new competitive approach.
blue-card question.– i want to ask about short-termism and arbitrary targets. there is a danger, is there not, that new technology is often introduced before the research has been done to be able to make that technology competitive. do you agree with me that there is a danger that we might end up bringing in the wrong types of renewables by putting the cart before the horse in that way?
madam president, we have wasted vast amounts of money on expensive and intermittent renewables. we have forced up the price of energy and undermined our industrial competitiveness. we have driven jobs and investment offshore. we have created what our colleague antonio tajani has described as an industrial massacre in europe. and why have we done this? to tackle global warming. but, colleagues, there has been no global warming for nearly 20 years. here are the official satellite data from remote-sensing systems. no child in school today has actually experienced global warming. we are bankrupting europe for a theory that was speculative to start with and is looking increasingly implausible. future generations will look back on our catastrophic collective climate paranoia and compare it with witch-burning in the 16th century, or with the dutch tulip mania in the 17th. colleagues, it is time to wake up, face the facts and cut our losses.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the european union has an energy security problem because it is too reliant on one source of energy – russian gas. i agree with mr kariņš that russia is ruled by an unfriendly government which uses energy as a political weapon. we saw this happen in both 2006 and 2009 when mr putin decided to cut off gas supplies to ukraine. the continuing crisis in ukraine has only exacerbated the danger of this happening again. while improving energy efficiency and our use of renewable energy are both important, they will not have much impact on the eu’s energy dependency on russia. if we are to relieve the focus on energy security, we should be willing to use all the tools at our disposal, including shale gas and nuclear energy. we should also encourage the development of new technologies, especially carbon capture and storage. i reject the calls in this report for binding climate and energy targets and interference in the energy mix of member states. that is a national competence and i want it to remain so. commissioner, the best way to ensure energy security for the whole of europe is to have a properly interconnected single market. we need the ability to move gas and electricity around the continent, so that if one source is ever unavailable, another can be used. i would ask members to imagine how differently we would have approached the crisis in ukraine had we been able to replace russian gas with imports from elsewhere. the commission should concentrate on resolving the technical and legal issues which prevent the free exchange of energy, and they should also use their funds for projects of common interest to improve the connectivity of our energy networks. a properly-functioning and free market in energy across the eu will reduce prices for consumers and businesses and provide energy security for all of us. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i want member states to take sensible and proportionate steps to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, but that does not mean destroying our enemies (because we are doing this so much more quickly than all our competitors), and it also means that we maintain our standards of living.
madam president, there is almost no problem which cannot be made worse by regulatory intervention, and energy markets are a perfect example. we have hit them with emissions targets, an emissions trading scheme – including backloading and a market stability reserve – feed-in tariffs, renewable obligations certificates and, in my country – the uk – a carbon price floor. we have set aggressive targets for biofuels and then cut them, doing huge damage to investors. is it any wonder we are seeing investors shy away? is it any wonder that nuclear, coal and gas power plants are being closed or mothballed? do we not understand that intermittent renewables can never replace base—load generating capacity? in my country, where we used to have a comfortable spare capacity margin, we are now down to low-single-figure percentages in winter. blackouts and power cuts are a real possibility. the rapporteur is right to call for energy conservation measures and indigenous energy production, especially shale gas. but more than that, we need a stable regulatory environment to promote investment. we need to understand that we cannot continue to rely on expensive and intermittent renewables. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr eriksson, i have been looking at reality, and when somebody stands up in this house and says that wind power is the cheapest generating technology to invest in, i do not know how to respond. i have never heard anything so absurd in my life. wind power onshore is much more expensive than conventional generation, and wind power offshore is more expensive again. we are ruining our economy by wasting money on these fabulously expensive initiatives. they cost more to build per unit of capacity and they cost more to run. you may be living in fairyland; i am not.
blue-card question.– energy—intensive industry is moving from europe to countries with cheaper energy costs. that is why i know, for example, scrap metal merchants who are selling now to india because they can get a better price for doing so, even with all the carbon footprint involved in transporting that metal from the uk to india. high energy prices push more of this to happen and cause fuel poverty for pensioners. could, therefore, the european energy union prove counterproductive if it is not competitive?
madam president, on monday the g7 leaders agreed to cut greenhouse gases by phasing out the use of fossil fuels by the end of the century. it is paramount that this objective is intertwined with our work on energy security. energy security has become an increasingly important issue, not only for policymakers and the energy industry but also for the public, who are becoming more and more concerned about where their energy comes from and its affordability. a recent study in the uk showed that 82% of the public are worried that the uk is becoming too dependent on too many countries for its supply. energy security is a crucial part of this puzzle. however, to help design our energy union, we should not forget that millions of people in europe and in the uk are energy poor. so how do we ensure that our energy is secure and affordable? our actions and our policies need to be guided by three major responsibilities: affordability, security and also sustainability. for all of these reasons, the s&d group has pushed to include binding targets on energy efficiency and renewable energy in the energy security strategy report, which we will be voting on tomorrow. i believe that this vision is the only way to achieve our climate change targets, to combat energy poverty, to guarantee energy security across europe, and to protect our most vulnerable citizens.
in writing.– in the uk over 80% of people express concerns that we are becoming too dependent on other countries to secure our energy needs and nearly the same number of people say we are not doing enough to tackle climate change. more than two million households in our country suffer from energy poverty, meaning they are not even able to secure the necessary fuel to heat their homes in winter. the answer is clear: acting as a bloc, the eu has the potential to develop new technologies to increase energy production while reducing primary demand, optimise network infrastructure, and diversify supply options to decrease our dependence on uncertain imports from third countries, including russia. all of this is possible while respecting national energy choices. meeting the energy needs of our constituents should be a priority even for conservative and ukip meps. it is therefore disappointing that they are against progress on this issue; could it be down to undue influence of vested interests? the path to energy security lies in an eu strategy that puts energy efficiency first, promotes renewables, and invests money domestically to develop our green technologies industry and create jobs rather than wasting scarce resources on expensive imports.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the smart approach, which the commission needs to understand, is that continental europe will never have an effective external border strategy until it has a smarter internal one. schengen is now 30 years old, but this approach will not be smart until european countries within the schengen area stop illegal or irregular migrants traversing europe, be it to enter the united kingdom unlawfully or otherwise. people traffickers, illegal migrants and invalid asylum seekers are not going to be deterred by the so-called smart measures. eu purpose, intent and cost are all open to question here. this response has been overtaken by external circumstances and events, and a major rethink is required. a rethink of the cause is paramount, because an overly complex technology application which fails to address the problem areas but which penalises, inconveniences and deters lawful movements is not the right approach to take.
mr president, i have a number of concerns with the smart borders proposal. in particular, i am dismayed that the eu feels it is appropriate to invest colossal amounts of funding on biometric and technological smart borders rather than investing in saving lives, as required by the eu charter of fundamental rights. thousands of migrants continue to try to reach the eu in overcrowded boats, risking their lives to escape poverty and violence. i commend the crew of the irish naval vessel, the lé eithne, which has now rescued over 1 000 people since it left ireland. this illustrates the need for increased search and rescue activities. the smart borders proposal appears more concerned with the mass collection of data than with addressing this humanitarian crisis. it is imperative that the commission prioritises the saving of lives, in line with the eu charter of fundamental rights, and forgets this smart borders proposal. ‘expensive borders’ would be more accurate – serving multinational interests with the imposition of expensive machines.
blue-card question.– you say that knowing who is in the european union at any given time would assist in the fight against terrorism. however, all the different countries have their own different legal systems, different police forces and so on, and europe is such a vast continent. surely the only way that this would make a serious difference is if we actually knew who was in each individual country at the same time? therefore this hugely expensive project – carried out with taxpayers’ money – is not going to make the kind of difference you suggest.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, ‘quis custodiet ipsos custodes’. the ancient roman poet juvenal knew the problem all too well: who guards the guards? who polices the police? and who notices when the eu’s anti-fraud office itself breaks the rules? well, in this case, it is supposed to be the scrutiny committee, and their report is pretty scathing. you cannot record phone conversations without legal basis, you cannot open 423 cases on the same day without so much as reasonable suspicion, and you cannot mislead parliament about fraud figures. but now we need to know the truth. we need these questions to be put to mr kessler in public at the committee on budgetary control. we need to grill him and find out exactly what has been going on. if there is no satisfactory response, then – for once in this place – heads must roll. it is not just about juvenal, but caesar’s wife must be above suspicion.
mr president, many apologies, and i know it was a difficult decision, but i did want to make the point that the decision to decide to delay the vote is, to our delegation anyway, a big problem in terms of how it is perceived by the citizens of europe, who are very concerned about this. so i wanted to stand up and make that point. (applause) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i have another point about amendment 27, and the ordering of amendment 27 on the agenda, because again, this is designed to confuse citizens. it should have been taken as a whole, and then the other parts should have been falling. i agree that this is a procedural point, but there was a lot of support for amendment 27, and i urge the president to think again about that issue in future.
mr president, let us be quite clear about this: we were willing to vote. it is because of the dishonourable behaviour of the left in this house that we are not voting today. is that right? (applause)we thought we had an agreement, but that agreement was turned upon. so what we are now discussing is whether (we are not having the vote) we have the debate. now let us be quite clear: you are absolutely right, the citizens out there – those who care – do want to hear us discuss this issue. but it is absolutely right that we have the debate at the same time as the vote. you can get as excited as you like and have your debate now, but let us have the debate so that it is fresh in our minds when we have the vote. and when i see the greens and the socialists talk to each other in that friendly way, can i suggest that not only do we need a dispute mechanism at international level, but probably here in parliament for the left. (considerable applause)
mr president, this is what the citizens expect. the citizens of europe expect us to hold this debate now. we have had over 2 million citizens petitioning us to deal with this transatlantic trade and investment partnership issue. we have had phone calls, we have had emails to every single one of us in this house. we have been deluged. people care about this issue. what are we doing this morning exactly? this morning is scheduled for us to debate ttip. it is on the agenda for today so what do we do? do we go back to our offices? or do we actually do what people expect us to do, and hold a debate? the choice here is a choice between democracy – listening to the people – or going back and doing things behind closed doors in the european union way. we have to hold this debate today, because that is what is expected of us by the people of the united kingdom, of italy, of the whole of europe. (applause)
mr president, that is the second time today that you have ignored me when i was expressing good manners, standing up and doing the appropriate call for a motion. i wish to call attention to title vii, chapter 6 of the rules of procedure, ‘interruptive and procedural motions’, rule 191: ‘suspension or closure of the sitting’. this morning i raised this point before you. you stood up and walked away. you left me without answering my question. if 40 members of this chamber decide to stand up at this moment, we are entitled to have a vote on whether we suspend the motions and sitting today in response to the disgraceful treatment we have had over the transatlantic trade and investment partnership issue. this will send out a strong message to our constituents that we are supporting them. so i am asking that 40 members of this chamber stand up, and we are entitled to a vote to suspend this sitting under rule 191. will 40 members please stand up, if they support that opportunity? (applause)
mr president, let us take it as read that all of us care about the survival of the species and of the planet. there is no one in this chamber who wants our children to fry. that should not need saying but, given the tone of the debate, it evidently does. the argument is about what is the best approach in order to steward our resources: does it necessarily have to involve more bureaucracy, more wealth redistribution, higher taxes and more decline of state sovereignty? now, obviously, if you happen to like all of those things anyway, it is easy to persuade yourself that there is no other method to control climate change. but i would suggest that the facts about the environment suggest something different. the countries which have done the most to improve environmental and ecological standards are the ones which have become wealthy and have therefore been in a position to do it. in fact, the best thing to have happened for the environment was the collapse of the berlin wall and with it, the smokestack industries, which was exactly what those in the left of this house supported at the time. cheer up, things are getting better.
in writing. ‒ it appears that most global economies are likely to abstain on annex b to the kyoto protocol. this will not come into force worldwide and therefore i believe that the uk should be able to make its own decision on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the eu should not commit to a second phase of the kyoto project. there has been no climate change for 15 years and most global economies will abstain when called to ratify the new agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gardini report on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, in which the eu commits itself to limiting the average annual greenhouse gas emissions between 2013 and 2020 to 80% of base year emissions, because we need to send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change. global warming is costing the world more than usd 1.2 trillion a year and eu citizens are telling us we should act. in the uk, nearly 70% of people say we are not doing enough to tackle climate change. climate change is posing a threat to the security and well-being of all, but the eu can be instrumental in turning this around. the plan to have 90 000 diplomats in over 3 000 missions lobbying to win pledges on carbon cuts from countries ahead of the paris summit on climate change shows the huge added value coordination on climate change on eu level can have. the paris summit will be crucial in tackling one of the greatest threats of our time. we cannot afford to fail.
in writing. ‒ the eu needs to ratify the doha amendment if the eu or the conference of presidents are to carry any weight when it comes to tackling climate change. if the eu does not ratify the amendment, it will be seen as backing away from its responsibility to the environment and will lose any opportunity it has to take a lead on climate change negotiations globally. having played an active role on many climate change related files in the envi committee, i understand the technical challenges that lie ahead, but i am also confident that this parliament will be overwhelmingly unified in its support of the doha amendment and i look forward to europe proactively setting the agenda in paris later this year.
in writing. ‒ i along, with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report as the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol is a vital tool in the fight against climate change and today’s vote underlines the eu’s commitment to fulfilling its international obligations. the eu’s work is complemented by the efforts of individual nations and in this context it should be noted that my own country, scotland, is now more than three-quarters of the way towards achieving its world-leading target of a 42 per cent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020, with emissions falling 14 per cent between 2012 and 2013.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the recommendation to ensure that the doha climate agreement, setting targets for emissions reductions up to 2020, is still ratified by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, and the timely consent of the european parliament is necessary.
in writing. ‒ as the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, the timely consent of the european parliament is necessary.
mr president, there is a tremendous argument now going on in advance of the uk referendum about whether we should keep our places at the top table. we are told that, if britain withdraws from the european union, we will lose our voice where the rules are made. but, as we see, and as we in this house know because we are always legislating on it, the real top tables are global rather than european. whether it is food standards, banking rules or internet domain names, the real top tables apply much more widely than just to the 28 member states of the european union. what we find is that all of our member states have effectively contracted out their voice at those real top tables to eu institutions – whereas, say, switzerland, as an independent country, is separately represented and sits there. so the united kingdom has given up its voting rights and its speaking rights at the world trade organisation – unlike, say, switzerland. that seems to me – in a world where the european union is shrinking as a share of the global economy and losing its pre-eminence in terms of gdp – a real loss of influence, which we will recover only when we re-establish our independence.
mr president, the united kingdom will soon have a referendum on whether we leave the european union. regarding that, i support wholeheartedly that we should do so. but, during that debate, there will be many occasions when arguments will be put forward that, by leaving the european union, the united kingdom will not have a voice within the european union or indeed across the world. here today, in this motion, we see iceland, a smaller nation than the united kingdom – iceland with less gdp and less influence in the globe than the united kingdom – entering into an agreement with the european union on a matter that is crucial for the people of the world: how we deal with our environment and how our international partners in kyoto agree on what we should do with the environment. this proves today that the united kingdom, outside of the european union, would be able to negotiate and have trade deals with the european union. we do not need to be a member of it to succeed in the future.
in writing. ‒ it appears that most global economies are likely to abstain on annex b to the kyoto protocol. this will not come into force worldwide, and therefore i believe that the uk should be able to make its own decision on this matter.
in writing. ‒ as i explained in the context of the gardini report, i believe the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the eu will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level. i therefore supported the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. i also voted in favour of the la via report, given iceland is not an eu member state, which means the terms of joint fulfilment concerning its participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol had to be laid down in a separate international agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am keen to see iceland, as part of the european economic area, ratify the doha amendment along with the eu. this is a positive example of the eu using its scale to encourage other european countries to commit to their climate change targets, so i was happy to vote in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report. since iceland is not an eu member state, the terms of joint fulfilment concerning its participation had to be laid down in a separate international agreement. the proposed council decision provides the basis for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the kyoto protocol to the unfccc.
in writing. ‒ iceland is a near neighbour of my own country and i was delighted to vote in favour of its continued participation with the eu in implementing the kyoto protocol.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the recommendation to ensure that the doha climate agreement, setting targets for emissions reductions up to 2020, is still ratified by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, since because iceland is not an eu member state, the terms of joint fulfilment concerning its participation had to be laid down in a separate international agreement. the proposed council decision provides the basis for the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the kyoto protocol to the unfccc. finally the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, therefore rendering the consent of the european parliament to this agreement necessary.
in writing. ‒ the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, therefore rendering the consent of the european parliament to this agreement necessary.
in writing. ‒ this should be a matter for the sovereign government of croatia. i oppose corruption, and therefore abstained rather than voting against.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote because accession to international agreements is a matter for the sovereign government of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sippel report, which mainly concerns a number of purely technical adjustments to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol, which are required by reason of croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report as it will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol (‘the mla convention’).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. mutual assistance in criminal matters provides eu countries with valuable tools in the fight against serious organised crime and cross-border offences. it is a matter of extreme concern that, at the very moment croatia is acceding to this convention, the uk is led by a government intent on ending eu cooperation and ripping up the european convention on human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as the proposal is technical. it will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union, and its protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as this commission recommendation for a council decision will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol (‘the mla convention’).
in writing. ‒ this commission recommendation for a council decision will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol (‘the mla convention’). it follows from the 2011 treaty of accession concerning croatia, which lists six conventions and protocols in the area of justice and home affairs to which croatia would accede by way of council decisions.
in writing. ‒ this should be a matter for the sovereign government of croatia. i oppose corruption, and therefore abstained rather than voting against.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this vote because we believe that accession to international agreements is a matter for the sovereign government of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the hyusmenova report, which mainly concerns a number of purely technical adjustments to the convention on the fight against corruption involving european communities officials or officials of member states, which are required by reason of croatia’s accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report as it will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of the member states of the european union (‘the pif convention’).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as the proposal is technical. it will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as this commission recommendation for a council decision will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of the member states of the european union (‘the pif convention’).
in writing. ‒ this commission recommendation for a council decision will pave the way for croatia to complete its accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of the member states of the european union (‘the pif convention’).
mr president, russia is failing to protect the human rights of many of its people, such as the lgbti communities. however, it is the conflict in ukraine that has caused the crisis in relations. unfortunately, this report is blatantly one-sided and fails to acknowledge that russia, along with the eu and the us, has exacerbated this conflict. the report also reveals sickening double standards in eu external policy. international law and human rights are mentioned 26 times collectively in eight pages of text. the report says cooperation should adhere fully to international human rights standards. i agree. but while the eu imposes sanctions on russia, it has allowed israel to violate international and human rights law with impunity for more than two decades. when it comes to diplomacy, it certainly seems that the eu saves the carrot for israel and the stick for russia.
mr president, russia has been sliding into autocracy. it is a state where journalists are murdered, where opposition is harassed, where media are closed down, and every contiguous state feels the pressure of russian revanchism, whether in the form of oil and gas diplomacy or, tragically, of direct military action. saying these things does not mean that you support any particular foreign policy; it is simply acknowledging the truth about the unhappy developments in that country. i have to say i was surprised by the alignment of forces in this chamber who are reluctant even to point out what is happening internally in russia. there are some eurosceptics who have got themselves, by a bizarre kind of ‘my enemy’s enemy is my friend’ logic, into lining up with one of the most repressive regimes in this part of the world. the reason i am against the brussels racket is precisely because i believe in freedom, democracy and the rule of law, and when i extend that logic to what is happening in the kremlin, i know whose side i am on.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the roll call vote on paragraph 21 of this report. i voted against this orwellian-type incursion of eu power against member states. it is all about giving the commission power to oversee the funding of political parties within member states. this is a gross incursion into the independence of the british democratic system. the unelected commission should have no oversight in relation to the running of political parties, as it is a political and legislative body of the european union. i also challenge the oral amendments after paragraphs 12 and 19 on the basis that they call for action to be taken by the commission. i believe that a sovereign british parliament, free from the european institutions, should be free to make such representations through the usual diplomatic channels rather than relying on this body.
mr president, almost one year ago to the day, i entered this chamber for the first time as a new mep. within the first few minutes of any debates i heard on russia, there were those here seeking further sanctions. i then heard those who wanted to increase military action. during the course of my time here, i have seen debates and motions which are allowing an eu army to have funding for even things such as drones. in this debate today, i have actually heard people suggest that those who advise caution on how we deal with russia are called idiots or indeed those who are funded by the russian empire itself. i am neither one of those, but i do take heed of the fact that in this particular motion there is very careful phraseology that would actually decline and reduce our ability for free media. there is an ability to increase disinformation through different kinds of campaigns. there is an ability to control the funding of political parties by the commission. there is an ability to build vehicles that would issue propaganda against the russian countries. this is what i heard once before in the soviet empire. this is about the european union seeking to build its own empire. for that i believe that we have the language of dictatorship, not democracy, within this chamber.
mr president, labour, conservatives and liberal democrats have already criticised ukip for standing up to an oral amendment and trying to prevent that amendment from being considered. why did we stand against that? firstly, we do not believe that the commission should legislate over how political parties are funded, or anything along those lines – simply because that is a matter for individual nation states. so we stand on that point of principle, not necessarily against the evils which it tries to stop. secondly, we believe that the oral amendments are a bad procedure in general. if you have got to try to decide within seconds, how are you going to vote on something? are we going to vote in favour or against? that can very easily lead to some very bad decisions being taken. so we believe that these things should be sorted well in advance and parliament should not be bounced into a response so quickly.
in writing. ‒ sinn féin recognises and condemns russia’s human rights abuses, including the discrimination against the lgbti community and the imprisonment of political opponents and critics of the putin regime as outlined in the report. however, the main focus of the report relates to the crisis in ukraine, which is now to the core of current eu-russia relations. sinn féin has been clear on our position regarding the conflict in the region. the conflict in ukraine has stemmed from a zero-sum geopolitical game between russia and the west that put ukraine in the position of choosing to ally itself with one or the other. russia and the eu should have been working together to create mutually beneficial and non-exclusive economic, political and social relationships with ukraine. instead russian and eu strategic interests in the region have plunged ukraine into crisis. while the report acknowledges the corrosive part played by russia in the region it completely ignores any responsibility of the eu for its role in the development of this conflict. it is simply an unbalanced report. furthermore, the report strikes the wrong note for future eu-russia relations. we believe that open dialogue, not confrontation, between the eu and russia is what is needed to de-escalate tensions. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ given her ongoing encroachment into sovereign ukraine and the illegal annexation of crimea, it is ironic that mr putin at the weekend declared that his nation is no threat to the west. we have seen reported violation after violation of international law, allegations of widespread corruption and the suppression of fundamental freedoms of speech, press and political opposition in russia. this is an affront to democracy and should be met with sanctions, whether they are in terms of trade or diplomatic ties. however this is not a line we take lightly. the russian import-ban has destabilised agriculture markets right across europe. unfortunately, northern ireland has been adversely affected, especially the dairy and pork sectors, with farm gate prices falling. product in transit was also refused, costing dairy processors significantly, and with no support from the commission. ultimately, amidst sending a message of zero tolerance to russia, the commission must focus on finding new markets and doing more to offset those affected through no fault of their own.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the landsbergis report because it is crucial we send out a strong, yet realistic, message to the russian government. the door must remain open for dialogue, but our red lines should be firm and clear: no return to business as usual unless the minsk agreements are implemented, the territorial integrity of ukraine is restored and the osce-based security order in europe is respected. i call upon the european commission and high representative/vice-president mogherini to work on these particular lines.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report to maintain a strong stance against russia, but also to send a strong message to president putin that active re-engagement and stepping back from isolation is the most constructive means to progress. in the report, labour meps helped secure important amendments on lgbti rights – calling out the government for failing to address anti-lgbti violence and anti-lgbti legislation – and support for civil organisations in russia.
in writing. ‒ russia will always be a hugely important country for the eu, and we must strive for a constructive relationship which will be beneficial to all our citizens. nevertheless, we must not shy away from highlighting illegal and dangerous behaviour on the part of the russian state. i was able to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. despite recent worrying developments, we stress the importance of a long-term perspective for re-engagement and cooperation with russia, on the condition that russia fully implement the minsk agreement and respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. europe needs to stay firm and united, and we cannot compromise on our core values of respect for human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to maintain a strong stance against russia, but also to send a strong message to president putin that active re-engagemnet and not isolation is the most constructive means to progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it sends a powerful message to mr putin to step back from isolation and re-engage. in the report, labour meps helped secure important amendments on lgbti rights – calling out the government for failing to address anti-lgbti violence and anti— lgbti legislation – and support for civil organisations in russia.
in writing. ‒ the rise of authoritarianism in russia and clear breach of international law in relation to ukraine clearly present an important challenge to europe, but we cannot ignore the fact that russia remains an important neighbour of the eu and that we have clear shared interests in practical cooperation and tackling global challenges, such as terrorism, the syrian conflict, iran’s nuclear programme and wider non-proliferation. this report is an important statement about eu-russia relations following the recent events in crimea and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ with my s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of this resolution because it maintains its tough stance on russia, and calls on moscow to respect human rights and international values and step back from isolation and re-engage with the rest of the world. russia is an important neighbour of the eu but, as the conflict continues, we back the continuing use of sanctions, though we are also clear that there must be engagement with our important neighbour.
in writing. ‒ with my s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of this resolution because it maintains its tough stance on russia, and calls on moscow to respect human rights and international values and step back from isolation and re-engage with the rest of the world. russia is an important neighbour of the eu but, as the conflict continues, we back the continuing use of sanctions, though we are also clear that there must be engagement with our important neighbour.
mr president, i voted against this report because, frankly, the eu energy policies have been a colossal disaster. the large combustion plant directive has closed the power stations in the united kingdom that provide us with a third of our energy. in my own constituency, tilbury power station was one of those victims, and hundreds of jobs were lost as a result. if you look at the wider effect on energy prices, we face the chilling prospect of 10 000 to 20 000 people – mostly older folk – dying every year. they are called excess winter deaths, and that is a horrifying euphemism if ever i heard one. they die because they have to choose between heating and eating. we are going to face this question at a referendum. in 1975 the british people thought they were voting for a common market. now, with the eu controlling our energy policy, our laws and our borders, and us giving the eu gbp 55 million a day, the public will finally – and only because of ukip – put this issue to rest so we can reject this union and its failed policies.
mr president, in the united kingdom we need a basket of different energy types. i think that is pretty much universally accepted. personally, i think that, as far as renewables are concerned, wind power is a bit of a dead end in the uk, certainly until the storage problem has been sorted. sometimes the wind blows, sometimes the wind does not blow, and the times when we need the most power are generally the hottest and coldest days of the year when the wind is not blowing. other types of renewables – tidal power, for example – are much closer to being sustainable and economical, and being ready to be introduced. decisions should always be based on technology, not targets. the european union is all about its targets, but the trouble with targets is that they distort and lead you down a blind alley. but none of this is really the point. the point is that we do not need an eu energy strategy. we need a uk energy strategy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this focus on efforts aimed at improving energy security across the member states. the presence of an energy supply that is stable and affordable in eu regions is of vital importance to national economies, to consumers and to households, including those most vulnerable. the recent drop in oil and fuel prices has come as welcome news to motorists and homeowners seeking to heat their homes. however, there are very real fears that the positive impacts of these reductions have not been felt nearly enough – and particularly by those working in agriculture and construction, who have not enjoyed subsequent cuts in their input costs. this is worrying and requires both national and eu attention. of course, greater supply can aid this, and it is vital that t-ene projects of common interest (pci) start to receive crucial funding to carry out projects that stand to ensure better regional, national and trans-national connectivity in terms of the energy market. at the core of this are many exciting projects, including a number in my own constituency, northern ireland, that stand to consolidate supply and storage in renewables, with potentially transformative impacts for consumers and businesses, including in rural areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the saudargas report because it is clear to me that the path to energy security lies in energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables, and investing money domestically to develop our green technologies industry and create jobs rather than wasting scarce resources on expensive imports. that is why i find it baffling that conservatives in parliament, including tories, voted down plans to guarantee european energy security. given our current dependence on energy imports from unreliable partners like russia, the enormous threat posed to our security by climate change, and the crucial importance of the renewables and green energy sector for the real economy, i find their decision to side with vested interests rather than standing behind the well-being of our citizens completely incomprehensible. by establishing an ambitious energy security strategy, the eu can play a crucial role in protecting our citizens against the possibly devastating consequences of sudden disruptions of gas supplies, as already experienced by some member states which were hit hard by disruptions in the winters of 2006 and 2009, and put us firmly on the path towards sustainable job creation.
in writing. ‒ whilst i acknowledge that the eu’s environmental targets and energy security objectives are not entirely independent policy areas, i believe it is important that member states decide their own energy mixes. fully renewable energy sources are insufficient if the eu is to meet its carbon reduction targets and alternative energy sources can play an important, intermediately step in this process and at the same time reduce our dependence on external energy sources. this report should focus on reducing our foreign energy dependency in the context of an energy union whilst member states should then be able to determine their energy mix whilst committing to the eu’s environmental targets. if this reports deviates away from its original function, we will end up with overlapping regulation whilst infringing on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
in writing. ‒ my party has a long-standing policy of opposition to nuclear power, and the fukushima disaster has underlined the dangers of nuclear technology. too many people in this house remain supportive of nuclear energy. i cannot support the idea of nuclear power remaining a long-term answer to the eu’s energy needs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report and am extremely disappointed it was voted down by ukip and the tories, as it would have helped thousands of people across the europe out of energy poverty. the eu currently imports more than half of all the energy it consumes at a cost of more than eur 1 billion per day – this cannot go on. labour meps want to make sure the uk’s energy security is reinforced by reducing our dependency on fossil fuel imports and developing renewable technologies. we are pro—business and pro—environment and know it is crucial to boost investment in renewable energy across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to ensure that our energy security is consolidated by a reduction on dependency on fossil fuels and by the exploration of new technology to support energy supplies in the future. i am disappointed that it was not passed, as it also highlighted the need to tackle energy poverty and energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
in writing. ‒ events in ukraine have highlighted more than anything the need for eu member states to become more energy self-sufficient and to diversify their energy supplies. as russia becomes ever more belligerent in its war against ukraine, we have become increasingly aware of the problems of relying so heavily on russia for gas imports – some member states rely on russia for 100% of their gas imports. energy imports cost eu member states up to eur 1 billion per day now, as over half of all energy consumption is met by imports. completing the internal energy market is therefore of more importance than ever. my group broadly welcomed the initial report published by the rapporteur, so i am sad to see that so much of that good work has been lost during the amendment process. this has resulted in a report that places too much emphasis on goals outside the perspective of this report and has allowed ideological principles to trump the much—needed aims and merits of the original report. with this in mind, i am forced in this case to vote against the report but this does not dent my enthusiasm for greater work to ensure energy security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the transition to a clean green energy supply that favours non-nuclear renewables, such as tidal lagoons. however i voted against or abstained from individual amendments promoting or justifying nuclear energy, including those using ambiguous language or terminology. my view is based on issues of long-term cost both to people and planet and the fact that it is impossible for us to accurately estimate the cost of nuclear decommissioning, or storage of radioactive and other toxic waste. transport of raw, processed and spent nuclear fuel is also a financial and environmental burden. nuclear installations are major targets for terrorist attacks which necessitates further spending on high-level security. money currently spent on imports would be better used on creating more jobs, infrastructure and research, to support a move away from old carbon-based energy supplies and controversial nuclear power generation.
mr president, a while ago in committee, i asked the director-general of olaf, when he pointed out that there were now more fraud cases being opened: is it that you are getting better at detecting the fraud or is it that there is more fraud in the european union? his answer was, in a moment of rare honesty in this place, quite telling. he said: i think it is a bit of both actually. but now we find that actually there are serious allegations that this parliament has been misled over the figures and that the true figures could be completely wrong. we do not know what the true position is. the scrutiny committee has actually come up with a pretty damning report, it has to be said, of the way in which olaf has conducted itself. so i think it is not just that there are big questions to answer within olaf but wider questions actually about fraud and corruption within the whole european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which raised serious questions over what confidence we can have in the work of olaf. had it failed, i would have supported the other resolutions including that of the efdd.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted for this resolution because we support measures to tackle corruption and increase the transparency of how tax-payers’ money is used. in particular, the unclear practices of ‘clearing house’ meetings should be publicised.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which criticises olaf for poor cooperation with its supervisory committee. the supervisory committee has consistently pointed out its inability to supervise olaf’s independence due to the lack of access to necessary information. olaf did not take into account the three recommendations the supervisory committee made in opinion no 1/2014 – namely that olaf did not issue guidelines on the application of the selection principles (efficient use of resources, proportionality, subsidiarity/added value) and, instead of reviewing the financial indicators to adapt them to the reality of spending programs, olaf has abolished them completely.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, given that the olaf director—general has not been invited to present the annual activity report and respond to the opinion of the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution. this text represents only the opinion of the supervisory committee without inviting the olaf director—general to respond and present the annual activity report. i regret that an incomplete debate was pushed forward without the plenary having the chance to deliver a proper and fully—informed opinion. we call for more efficient debates, with respect for transparency and full disclosure to parliament and eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution. this text represents only the opinion of the supervisory committee, without the olaf director general having been invited to respond and present the annual activity report. i find it regrettable that an incomplete debate was pushed forward without the plenary having the chance to deliver a proper, fully informed opinion. we call for more efficient debates, with respect for transparency and full disclosure to parliament and eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ socialist & democrat meps voted against the motion for a resolution on the olaf supervisory committee’s annual report for 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as it takes into account only the views of the supervisory committee and not those of olaf itself. olaf has yet to make a presentation to the committee on budgetary control and it should be able to do so as per the usual procedure, in order to ensure a fair and balanced resolution. this resolution was one-sided and premature and i voted in favour of the s&d group’s alternative resolution which makes this clear. we must make certain that investigations into the effectiveness of european bodies are conducted, and reported on, in a thorough manner in order to ensure accurate and useful conclusions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as it takes into account only the views of the supervisory committee and not those of olaf itself. olaf has yet to make a presentation to the committee on budgetary control and it should be able to do so as per the usual procedure, in order to ensure a fair and balanced resolution. this resolution was one-sided and premature and i voted in favour of the s&d group’s alternative resolution which makes this clear. we must make certain that investigations into the effectiveness of european bodies are conducted, and reported on, in a thorough manner in order to ensure accurate and useful conclusions.
mr president, in reference to the situation in hungary, the eu should not be interfering in the internal affairs of member states, regardless of political opinions held. mr orbán is a democratically-elected prime minister with a two-thirds majority in hungary’s parliament. i suspect that there are not many parties or politicians in this chamber that have had the same support he has in his nation state. the eu should respect the democratic wishes of the hungarian people and it should keep its nose out where it does not belong.
mr president, this whole debate, at the end of which i voted against, exactly sums up the situation we are in with regard to national sovereignty. if the european union truly were a family of sovereign states, it would not be interfering in hungary’s internal political matters. it strikes me as ridiculous that mr orbán, who was democratically elected by the hungarian people, should face such voices from a so-called elected democratic institution like the european parliament. it is a disgrace, and i think it is a matter for the hungarian people, rightly or wrongly, to decide their own political destinies.
mr president, i have just voted against a motion condemning hungary. why? because they have dared to suggest that they will have referenda in their own country, freely and democratically held, about issues such as the death penalty. well, i will tell you something: i envy them. i wish we could have free and fair referenda in the uk and have them on a more regular basis, where they are not being manipulated by the government as one upcoming one on the eu appears to be. if there were a chance of a referendum on the death penalty in the uk, i tell you what, i would enthusiastically campaign for it, and i would like to see the issues out there. so i say to the eu: stop interfering with people’s domestic affairs, stop fighting against democracy. i say to the british people: if you want your voice to be heard, if you want direct democracy on a whole range of subjects where referenda could really make a difference, if you want freedom, then when this referendum does come on our membership of the eu, take note of the example of how they have treated hungary and let us get out – vote to leave!
mr president, as we just heard from my colleague bill etheridge, if there were a referendum in the uk on the return of the death penalty, he would enthusiastically vote in favour. i as a colleague take a different view. that is democracy: two people sitting next to each other in the same chamber can have different views, different opinions. we see that in house after house, neighbourhood after neighbourhood across the united kingdom, and probably as well across the whole of europe. that is what democracy is about, letting the people take decisions for themselves. i do not necessarily like every single thing that hungary does, but hungary is a sovereign, democratic nation – and this place should not interfere.
in writing. ‒ i am disappointed that the hungarian government has taken such an irrational nationalistic view in relation to a wide range of policy areas and freedoms. these actions have led to companies from outside hungary who have invested heavily in hungary, and who have created employment, effectively being restricted from operating in the country. i would urge the commission to investigate as a matter of urgency any complaints that have been lodged in this regard.
in writing. ‒ we cannot stay silent on the fact that prime minister orbán has indicated his willingness to open the door to reinstating the death penalty, or the fact that he has launched a public ‘consultation’ with the clear intention to frame the debate on migration in the context of terrorism. this is not about political point-scoring for the left, as some conservative meps, including from the uk, would have the public believe. this is about engaging in a debate and taking a clear position on statements made by prime minister orbán which run counter to fundamental eu values and could jeopardise the security and wellbeing of citizens far beyond hungarian borders. that is why i supported the call to the commission to initiate a monitoring process on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. what credibility can we have in the world if we do not address concerns within our borders that we require others to address? and what credibility do we have amongst our citizens if we remain silent in the face of policies that threaten to violate the fundamental values for which they have fought so hard?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns recent statements by the hungarian prime minister on the reintroduction of the death penalty, the public consultation on migration and the increased victimisation of immigrants. the resolution therefore supports the fundamental rights of hungarians, which are the core values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ parliament has today noted its concerns with regard to human rights abuses in hungary. this house should always be alert to such abuses in member states – and we must also be alert to the uk government’s threats to repeal the human rights act.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution, which came after statements by the hungarian prime minister on the reintroduction of the death penalty, and increased victimisation of migrants by his government. it makes clear that the european parliament will not accept changes to hungarian law that threaten core european values.
in writing. ‒ the death penalty is incompatible with the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights on which the union is founded, and any member state reintroducing the death penalty would therefore be in violation of the treaties and of the eu charter of fundamental rights. the abolition of the death penalty constitutes a milestone in the development of fundamental rights in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns recent statements by the hungarian prime minister on the reintroduction of the death penalty, as well as the public consultation on migration and the increased victimisation of immigrants. the resolution therefore supports the fundamental rights of hungarians in line with the core values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns recent statements by the hungarian prime minister on the reintroduction of the death penalty, as well as the public consultation on migration and the increased victimisation of immigrants. the resolution therefore supports the fundamental rights of hungarians, which are the core values of the european union.
mr president, i share some of the concerns that we have heard this afternoon and earlier about human rights in turkey. i sincerely hope that the new turkish government will represent a step in the right direction and not in the wrong one. the reason that i oppose turkey joining the european union is that, ultimately, the free movement of workers principle would apply to turkey. now that principle, certainly as far as the uk is concerned, is a lopsided principle in two ways. firstly in terms of other countries where the main language that people learn to speak first is english, so that there is a disproportionate number of people who want to come to the uk. secondly, and in particular in the case of turkey, we see that there is there is a disproportionate imbalance in terms of wages and the wages that can be commanded. that kind of freedom works when you have people of broadly similar living standards and where you have broadly similar mentalities and cultures. in the case of turkey, where we are talking about 90 million people who would have that right to free movement, i think that would certainly be, for me, very much a step too far.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report given it sends out a strong, clear and detailed message to turkey, a key strategic partner of the eu. the accession process gives us a very effective carrot to encourage significant reform, bringing more democracy, security and stability to turkey, and therefore europe and the region. i therefore find it disappointing that parties on the right are willing to forsake the opportunity to move forward on these crucial issues for the benefit of an easy and populist discourse on migration. by hosting nearly 2 million refugees, turkey is also instrumental in maintaining stability in our neighbourhood and it is in our interest that we support the country in this effort. but let it be clear that core european values will need to be upheld if turkey wants to make further progress on accession. we cannot accept a backslide on democratic reforms in fields like the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression and the media, and the rights of minorities and women. we expect a new government to make progress on these key reforms, including by finding a sustainable solution to the peace process with the kurdish community and lowering the 10% electoral threshold.
in writing. ‒ i still have reservations about turkey’s record on civil liberties, including press freedom and gender equality. women’s rights should be at the core of civil liberties in all eu countries, and the eu should advocate equality between the genders beyond its own borders and particularly in candidate countries. therefore, until turkey can demonstrate a strong record in this area, removing all institutionalised inequality towards women, it should not be considered for accession to the eu. however, turkey still has a strong role as a democratic link between west and east, and because i hope the country will be making progress in the area of civil liberties i decided to withhold my vote instead of voting against or in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the commission’s 2014 progress report on turkey, and share its conclusion that turkey is a key strategic partner for the eu. active and credible negotiations would provide a suitable framework for exploiting the full potential of eu-turkey relations.
in writing. ‒ this resolution quite rightly notes that last week’s turkish election resulted in the most inclusive and representative parliament in that country’s modern history and the success of the kurdish minority should be noted. turkey remains an important ally of the eu and i was able to support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. the european parliament has given a clear signal that it wants to remain constructively engaged with a new turkish government. despite the serious concerns we have about certain developments in the country, now is not the moment to turn away from turkey. we have to create a permanent platform for dialogue in order to make progress in the areas of fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the commission’s 2014 progress report on turkey, and share its conclusion that turkey is a key strategic partner for the eu. active and credible negotiations would provide a suitable framework for exploiting the full potential of eu-turkey relations.
in writing. ‒ as a vociferous critic of the direction in which president erdogan has been leading turkey over the past decade, i speak today with a touch of optimism. with the parliamentary elections of 7 june 2015 depriving erdogan’s ak party of the majority he has relied on to impose his will, and with the kurdish party passing the 10% threshold for the first time to take up to 80 seats, this could perhaps mark the horizon of better things to come. a different type of government would do more to honour its role as a nato ally in the fight against isis, truly to honour its commitments as an eu candidate country to align its foreign policy more closely with that of eu member states, as outlined in chapter 31 of the acquis, and to refrain from any interference in the cyprus reunification talks which are taking on an increasingly optimistic tone following the election of akinci as leader of turkish-cypriot community. turkey has great potential as an emerging major economy, with a talented and diverse population, straddling the divide between east and west. at present i do not foresee such a government emerging, especially as erdogan is already talking of fresh elections, but i hope to be proved wrong.
in writing. – the resolution rightly acknowledges turkey’s importance as a strategic partner of the eu, with a crucial role in the fight against terrorism and instability in the middle east. i also welcome the call for northern cyprus to be allowed to trade with the eu. the resolution makes some fair criticisms of turkey. turkey must respect the rights of religious minorities, take effective action against corruption, and take tougher measures to combat irregular migration. on the other hand, the resolution criticises turkey’s stance on cyprus without acknowledging that the eu has yet to honour its commitment to end the isolation of northern cyprus. it notes the importance of energy issues but does not call for the opening of chapter 15 of the acquis, which would help to reduce our reliance on russian gas. the reference to the april 2015 resolution, urging turkey to recognise the ‘armenian genocide’, is deliberately and unnecessarily provocative and could undermine eu-turkey relations at a time when we need to be encouraging turkey’s democratic and liberal instincts. since the resolution combines valid points with some negative ones, as well as gratuitous attacks on turkey, i abstained.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, much of the pain, destruction, loss and suffering caused by the recent fighting in ukraine can be directly attributed to the expansionist policies of the european union. as a result, the eu is now deeply embroiled in a highly complex and dangerous standoff with russia which it cannot hope to win. due to the eu’s previous empire-building ambitions in ukraine, this organisation now has little moral legitimacy to take any action, either diplomatically or militarily, without the risk of further stoking the fires of conflict in the region. this is why i am today calling for a strategy of intervention and the promotion of peace, to be developed and implemented by a non-state, non-partisan actor such as the un in order to avoid a potentially catastrophic, multinational, military engagement. while i condemn the eu for its actions in ukraine, i must also make it clear that i equally condemn russia's president putin for his own expansionist ambitions in the black sea region. i can only hope that through skilful negotiation and diplomacy, conducted by a competent independent arbiter, a multinational war can be averted. ukraine needs the opportunity to take control of its own internal affairs to achieve its ambition of becoming a sustainable and united democracy. given the opportunity, i am convinced ukraine can develop into a strong, independent, politically free, and defendable nation that can freely trade on both sides of the current divide and with the rest of the world. what ukraine does not need is an eu or russian puppet master pulling its strings, moving forward.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work on this report and express my sadness and regret that the relationship between the eu and the russian leadership has had to come to this. russia’s illegal annexation of crimea, its deliberate destabilisation of eastern ukraine and its continued involvement in conflicts across the region, such as abkhazia and south ossetia, mean we can no longer trust the russian leadership. with this in mind, i am glad the report recognises the ongoing work of the eu missions in the black sea states and, in particular, the human rights abuses that crimean citizens have suffered since the annexation. in this context, we must remain unified, continue the sanctions against russia and continue to cooperate with our eastern partners.
mr president, this report raises concerns over militarisation and the priorities of russia and the eu in the region. it welcomes efforts by eu member states to enhance the military capability of the black sea states and says that modernisation in enhancing their military capabilities is key to stability. the report also urges the commission to support eu member states in increasing their defence budgets. of course, this does nothing to de-escalate tension in the region. it does, however, expose the hypocrisy of the eu telling greece to spend money on defence while cutting pensions and raising vat and forcing austerity on ireland plus cuts in positive social public spending. the report highlights eu strategic interests in guaranteeing member states’ energy supply, and the security of oil and gas exploitation in the black sea. so the lives and the livelihoods of the people in crimea are without doubt a mere secondary consideration.
mr president, one of the central themes of the paşcu report is the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. this act has led to an increased militarisation of the black sea, including the increased presence of short- and medium-range nuclear weapons as part of russia’s ambitious programme to upgrade the black sea fleet. it is vital that the member states of the eu work together, both within our union and nato, to meet what is a very real and concerning military threat to our security. at this juncture, i take the opportunity to highlight the difficulties that those in the crimea are now facing. there are soaring food prices and water shortages, and these are just part of the daily struggle that people are facing under russian occupation. as feared, the crimean tatars are being persecuted by the russians, and ethnic ukrainians are being expelled from the territory, with an increasing incidence of arrests, raids and police interrogations of their populations being reported. we have also seen incidents of violence against the jewish population and their property. indeed, in just the first week of the annexation, a synagogue was vandalised with swastikas. the west, and the european union in particular, must stand united in condemning putin’s revanchist doctrine of annexing territory by force.
blue-card question.– mr zeller, i was wondering, listening to that speech, whether you think that eu taxpayers, just recovering from what was probably one of the deepest recessions for many generations, would be universally happy and delighted to hear that we are spending their money and time in places like burundi when they are still going through some hardship themselves? do you think that would be greeted with universal joy by the taxpayers of europe?
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, firstly let me say that i welcome the fact that the commission and the external action service have announced eur 1.5 million to assist the refugees. it is clear that the instability in burundi is not the fault of its neighbours, and its neighbours should not pay the price of that instability. so any assistance we can give is very welcome. can i also thank the commissioner for his kind comments on my role as the chief observer and reciprocate by saying that, while in burundi, i was very impressed by the level of engagement of both the external action service and the commission in trying to find constructive solutions to the very serious problems that burundi faces. while i was there, article 8 discussions took place and article 96 actions were seriously considered, so i welcome the fact that we are fully engaged in the country. as the commissioner has said, the immediate cause of the unrest in burundi is the decision of president nkurunziza to try to seek a third term, and that is clearly – no matter what he has forced his own constitutional court to say – in breach of the arusha agreement. and the consequence of his attempt to achieve a third term has been violence on the streets – not by the demonstrators, but by government-backed militias, the imbonerakure – who have tried to put down these peaceful demonstrations and forced demonstrators off the streets. the first thing that needs to happen in burundi is that the official security services need to rein in this unofficial militia. the second thing, if we are going to have real elections in burundi, is there has to be space for the opposition to campaign, and in the short 5-day period i spent there, it was clear to me that government-backed parties were able to hold rallies and encourage supporters, while any attempt by the opposition to get public space was ruthlessly put down. a third thing that needs to happen – and the commissioner mentioned this – is we need to make sure that the media is reopened. i have to say, i saw a level of cynicism i have rarely seen anywhere when, on the one hand, firstly they banned the radio stations and refused them permission to broadcast, then in the attempted coup, the radio stations were blown up and it was impossible for them to broadcast, and then the government said ‘now you are free to broadcast’ – having destroyed the facilities needed to actually carry out any broadcasting. so the conditions for credible elections do not look good; they need to be restored. i understand today burundi has announced that the elections will now take place on 29 june and 15 july. if they do restore conditions for credible elections i would recommend we go back to burundi, but at the present time it is not possible for the european union to observe these elections.
blue-card question.– i agree with much of what you said. i just want to make a point. when i was in burundi the only people trying to turn this into an ethnic conflict were the government. this is a political dispute. this is about political power, and we should not play their game of turning this into an ethnic conflict. i wonder if you would agree with that?
madam president – a procedural point under article 191. earlier today, my colleague steven woolfe stood up to request the closure of the sitting for the rest of the plenary in protest at the disgraceful way in which things were done to close down debate here. we do believe that something should be done, but we would now like to propose a compromise motion on behalf of the efdd group. we would like to propose that the sitting now be suspended for the rest of the day, simply to give us time to reflect on the undemocratic way that things have been done.
madam president, the rule states that: ‘the sitting may be suspended or closed during a debate or a vote if parliament so decides on a proposal from the president or at the request of a political group or at least 40 members. such a proposal or request shall be put to the vote immediately.’ that was done at 12 o’clock today. it is not being done now. please do it now.
madam president, i said that in my original speech. i made the request on behalf of the efdd. i am repeating myself now. you are required to put this to the vote immediately, madam president. you are now playing for time.
madam president, (murmurs of dissent) you do not want the vote to happen? can you hear me madam president? my microphone does not seem to be working. i am not sure whether it is. can you hear me? okay. (heckling) do you wish to hear what i want to say or not? madam president, i can stand here until i know that you can hear me, because you have asked me a question and i want to reply. as you requested, under rule 191, you are quite right. we made that request in this chamber when it was empty. i hope everybody enjoyed their drinks, rushing down to get here with the emails and twitters that you had. as part of that rule, a rule that is set down to … (heckling)(to a heckler) sir, do you wish to speak for me? i am quite happy to stop speaking whilst being interrupted by you. (the president cut off the hecklers)madam president, we expressed the rule to you absolutely clearly and, for the sake of clarity for the members in this chamber, it did actually say that under the rule ‘a sitting may be suspended or closed during a debate’ – we were during a debate – ‘if parliament so decides on a proposal from the president or a request from a political group’ – we made a request from the political group – ‘such a proposal or request shall be put to the vote immediately.’ we asked for the vote to be put immediately. the vote was suspended for 30 minutes. as a consequence of that our group, as a whole now, are going away to consider for the next couple of hours whether we feel that we should come back and present this motion once again to you. we are considering the legal implications of it. we are going to regard whether there has been a breach of these rules. so i am just letting you know that we may be back sometime later, around nine o'clock. madam president, we are taking legal advice. we will do so under the rules that this house has set down for this chamber. at this moment we will withdraw it until we consider the process at nine o'clock tonight. (some applause)
madam president, firstly i want to join with ms valenciano in what she said. i heard colleagues over there talking about what happened to their grandparents 50-70 years ago in europe. i am afraid that human rights abuses, torture and oppression are realities now in burundi today. that is what we are here to talk about. i wonder what the people of burundi must think when they see a debate about a very serious situation in their country being used to make a cheap political point by people over there. let us go back to this very serious debate. i hope some of you will think hard about that, and maybe think about the people of burundi, for whom this debate is extremely important because it is about their country and their aspiration to live in the kind of democracy that you and i are lucky enough to live in. commissioner, i apologise to you as well on behalf this house because you have come here to give us a very good statement, a very clear statement, which covers all the essential aspects of the situation in burundi. since we last spoke about it, things are clearly not better. as chair of the committee on development, i have received first-hand information from people on the ground about what is happening – about the human rights abuses, about the youth militias linked to the government which are causing violence, about the intimidation and all the issues that our colleagues have spoken about, and about the real hardship and the suffering that is being caused by the instability in the country, with people fleeing over borders. i am pleased, as the chair of the committee, that we have stepped up humanitarian aid –unlike ukip, who do not seem to think that people need that aid – people in rwanda, in tanzania, in drc, where people have fled their country. last month, commissioner mimica reminded us that the eu is a major donor to burundi, a country which comes 180th out of 187 on the human development index. in the last edf programme we doubled our aid to burundi. i know that people here are asking whether we should continue aiding that country in this period. i do not think that poor people should ever pay the price for the folly of their own government. we should remind the government of burundi of its responsibilities in respect of human rights under the cotonou agreement and remind it that the council did adopt conclusions on this on 18 may, and the government should be clear that we are looking at what we can do, because we want the elections to take place. i want to join others who have commended the work of our chief observer, david martin, in the last few weeks; he has been working with my other colleagues. we want democracy in burundi. we want the elections to take place under decent conditions. there are a few weeks now to put things right. i hope the government of burundi is watching this debate today and is listening to what has been said, and i hope it will act accordingly.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, are any of us surprised that it has come to this? we have known for years that there is corruption in fifa, and this has been sapping the soul out of the world’s second most popular sport after cricket. in this house we have long called for reform, particularly after the ludicrous decision to host the world cup in qatar, a city of 300 000 people with summer temperatures well into the 40s and no tradition of football. but it is only now that the fbi has acted that we begin to know the full truth. i congratulate the fbi for acting. i think they have done sports fans around the world a favour. now that the rotting core of the once beautiful game has finally been exposed, the ensuing fallout will undoubtedly expose others, and it is entirely necessary. i welcome the fact that sepp blatter has resigned, but much more needs to be done. blatter needs to go now, not at the end of december. the bids for the 2018 and 2022 world cups should be investigated and, if there is any evidence of wrongdoing, the entire process should be re-run. but we need root-and-branch reform of fifa, as others have also suggested. in particular, i do not want any new president to be tarnished by the old regime. we need a completely new field of people coming in here. if fifa wants inspiration, they should look to the international olympic committee (ioc). after they had a similar scandal before the salt lake city olympics in 2002, they put athletes at the core of their executive committees. i think fifa should be looking at exactly the same thing: trying to put athletes at the core of the decision-making process. they are the people who know the sport. millions of children play football every day. how do we persuade them to play by the rules, not to cheat and to respect referees, when the guardians of the global game do not play by the same rules themselves?
mr. president, i welcome the investigation into certain fifa officials about allegations of corruption. the details that have emerged are shocking, but not altogether surprising, as for too long fifa has been able to dodge allegations of wrongdoing under the guidance of sepp blatter. it has emerged that the football association in the republic of ireland received five million euros in a secret deal to buy its silence following controversy during a 2010 world cup qualifying playoff match. hopefully mr blatter has now realised that you cannot just throw money at a problem to make it go away. i would also call upon decision-makers in the football association of ireland to immediately pay back this money. if they have any integrity, they will do this. to fail to do so would be complicit in the corruption that seems to be at the heart of fifa. what has unfolded is appalling, but fifa has the opportunity to redeem itself, and this will only happen if it becomes fully transparent. many lovers of the beautiful game will require clear evidence that change will take place before they can put their trust in fifa to take that game forward. to sit in silence or to do nothing would be a betrayal of those fans.
mr president, when is a resignation not a resignation? when it is sepp blatter’s. i am disappointed that he will continue to run fifa until december. for decades we have heard rumours of bribery and corruption at fifa and yet this man, who has stated that he is more important than many heads of state, will still be at the helm and will have a major influence in choosing his successor. therefore i have little confidence that any reform at fifa will actually happen. the commission has to take urgent action. fifa is subject to our regulatory rules. we cannot just abdicate our responsibility and leave it to the us again. the reform that is urgently needed is greater transparency in accounting, an independent audit of the last 10 years, and the adoption of watertight procedures to tackle corruption. we should question why fifa is established in switzerland. it cannot just be for tax reasons, can it? if fifa does not reform, uefa needs to take action, supported by all the member states – unlike blatter’s latest re-election bid: when uefa called for a vote against him, big member states like france and spain refused. i am sure it is nothing to do with the qatari investments in their country. is that why they are silent on the 1 200 migrant workers who have lost their lives on the world cup construction sites in qatar? for all that we endeavour to raise the profile of the game of football, what we have here is the top body setting the worst possible example, especially for aspiring young footballers.
in writing.– the endemic corruption in fifa is tarnishing the image of the whole sport. we need to send a strong message to fifa that they cannot continue to get away with dragging the ‘beautiful game’ through the mud. i would like to urge all eu countries to withdraw their national teams from both the 2018 and 2022 world cup tournaments unless fifa cleans up its act. sepp blatter must go immediately, and whoever replaces him must re-run the qatar and russia world cup bidding process in a fair and transparent way.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, as we sit here debating azerbaijan’s human rights record, stating that they should meet similar standards to those set in western eu member states, it is easy to forget that they provide a judge who sits at the european court of human rights (echr) just across the river from us here in strasbourg. in fact, he has done so for the last 12 years and, so far as i am aware, no one has called for his removal nor had any reason to do so. although i do not regard echr membership as a defining characteristic in identifying adherence to human rights, would it not be hypocritical of the european union to, on the one hand, accept into eu law judgments of the echr that have been handed down by azerbaijan’s representative whilst, on the other, refusing to acknowledge that azerbaijan seeks to fulfil its obligations towards the international community? i do understand the serious concerns being raised in this chamber during this debate. however, sporting events such as the forthcoming baku games in azerbaijan, as pointed out by the council, are a great way to bring countries closer together. indeed, what better and more peaceful way to continue to encourage azerbaijan in its engagement with the rest of the world? azerbaijan, to my mind, should be commended for the manner in which its muslim, jewish and christian citizens have built a largely peaceful society. there are few places in that region with such a record. by some standards, one could argue that azerbaijan is a success on this issue alone. sport is a means by which to communicate with those with whom we do not share a language. i well remember, as a youngster, sporting tournaments which opened my mind to the names and flags of other countries, helping me to expand my knowledge of our world and the people in it. why deny today’s youngsters the opportunity to learn about baku and azerbaijan?
blue-card question. – mr marias, you heard my comments about azerbaijan’s judge sitting over the road at the echr. what organisation do you think is best placed to most effectively address human rights issues directly with azerbaijan? is it parliament? is it another european union institution, or maybe the council of europe?
mr president, i would like to start by wishing all of the individual participants in the european games well. the oral question we have put to the council quite rightly points out that sporting events have a transcending potential and can contribute to nobler causes such as human rights and, indeed, peace itself. we therefore trust that the point has been made to the european external action service and the council by the special representative, mr lambrinidis, who was in azerbaijan as recently as february. yet we have seen, particularly in the run-up to the games, that there is a confirmed pattern of systematic deficiencies, especially as far as freedom of expression is concerned. the council of europe commissioner for human rights has said on the record, ‘all of my partners in azerbaijan are in jail.’ the list includes leyla yunus, hilal mammadov, intigam aliyev, rasul jafarov – and it goes on. this is a very long list indeed. to our friends in azerbaijan our message is simple: you are absolutely right in seeing the baku european games as a spotlight on azerbaijan. it is now up to you to use or not to use this unique opportunity to demonstrate that azerbaijan truly adheres to the international commitments on human rights that it has signed up to. it is up to you to demonstrate whether there is a community of values that binds us, or not.
author.– mr president, the fall of palmyra and ramadi is a blow to the belief that the fight against isis is progressing and that the liberation of mosul could indeed begin soon. the international coalition that is fighting isis from the air is clearly making some progress and has been successful in destroying certain strategic and economic targets, to the detriment and degradation of isis/daesh. the ground offensive, however, clearly has a lot further to go. relying on an ill-prepared, unwilling iraqi force and iranian-backed shia militias can only achieve so much and, in some cases, is proving to be counterproductive in the campaign for sunni hearts and minds in iraq. the fall of palmyra is of huge concern as we witness one of the world’s greatest ancient ruins – a testament to the great civilisations that have flourished in the middle east throughout the millennia – being subject to the whims of a band of barbarian philistines. tragic as this is, however, it is nothing compared to the loss of life, the sexual violence, enslavement and monstrous brutality that isis/daesh is perpetrating across the region, and we will do all that we can today to remember that as part of the debate. as we think of the human cost of the crisis in the middle east, it is apt also today in this chamber to discuss the case of mazen darwish, who is a victim of the totalitarian-run state that assad has left to administer. it serves in some sense to remind us where much of the story began. this parliament stands up for the belief in freedom of speech, and i am proud today again to call for the release of mr darwish on those grounds.
author.– mr president, the situation and human rights abuses in syria are intolerable and grotesque. the examples of torture, mutilation, murder and sexual abuse are now legion. a destabilised state, where any attempt to uphold free speech is doomed to personal disaster, with heroic individuals concerned, such as mr darwish, consigned to imprisonment and worse. mr darwish and people like him deserve our support in their time of need, and by speaking up for the free flow of information they uphold that most fundamental tenant of democracy. however, we must also recognise that all too often, instances such as these arise due to countries such as syria becoming merely the stage for bigger and nationally-vested battles. i trust that any proposed intervention will be measured and in the context of protecting individuals, and not furthering other interests that merely exacerbate the situation and contribute to the further abuses that we have already seen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, in the tragedy of syria it is difficult to know where to start. i very strongly endorse the comments from all corners of the house in respect of mazen darwish, who we certainly do want to see released as quickly as possible. our focus is on isis itself and palmyra prison, and on the need for us as a european union, and as the west, not to drift towards the assad regime by accident in the fight against isis. that fight is valid in itself, of course, but we must ensure that we are even-handed, as the assad regime, in the eyes of the people of syria, is not the lesser of two evils. in the eyes of the people of syria, it is the same evil as isis, and one man with a gun looks very similar to another. isis destroyed the notorious palmyra prison, amongst their other crimes in palmyra, but the destruction of that prison can only enhance the way they are viewed by the people of syria. we must of course combat isis, but they do exist for a reason and we must be aware of the causes of isis, as well as the symptoms.
mr president, for the moment, the cultural cleansing undertaken by daesh at other precious sites they have seized has not taken place at palmyra, one of the greatest of all cultural treasures of the middle east. as a former unesco world heritage site chairman myself, the thought that this wondrous jewel could be destroyed concerns me and so many others deeply, never forgetting that probably over 1 000 people have lost their lives in and around the site. indeed, the destruction of such sites is in fact contrary to islamic scholarship, where previous civilisations and the learning and architecture of antiquity was studied, preserved, often incorporated and, in a positive sense, used. as my colleague boris johnson, the mayor of london, has put it: this is not a clash of civilizations; it is a struggle between civilisation and nihilism, and it is a fight we must win.
author.– madam president, i chaired the parliament delegation that mr mann has just referred to and which was in nepal two weeks before the earthquake struck. we know that there were disaster preparedness plans being implemented, but not across the whole country at that point. we know that those preparations helped save lives, but we nevertheless express our deep sympathy for all of those who lost loved ones, and indeed for the country as a whole. it is a country, as we have heard, of real logistical problems in getting aid out: three main types of geography and three centuries in terms of development, as was once explained to me. development needs support in terms of the main parties agreeing on the new post-conflict constitution and developing local government, which will be crucial for the reconstruction effort. that is estimated to be 50% of gdp. that gdp will be hit because tourism is the main source of income, followed by remittances. so the donor community needs to pay what it has promised, and we will be paying attention to that.
author.– madam president, i too was in nepal just two weeks before the tragedy. seeing the images of the devastation of areas we visited was heart-breaking – 2.8 million people are in dire need of aid, and nearly a million of them live in hard-to-reach areas. reaching them must be a priority before the upcoming monsoon rains cause further damage and access to them is cut off. free and smooth access should be facilitated for all incoming humanitarian aid, which should be distributed fairly to all. i welcome the eu’s assistance. however, as the un has pointed out, much more international support is needed. nepal also needs an aid package for long-term recovery and development, including safeguards against future natural disasters. the international donors conference in kathmandu is welcome, and i urge the eu to play an active role in it. the s&d group is fully committed to supporting nepal’s ongoing efforts towards recovery, peace and prosperity. we hope the disastrous earthquake will unite all the political forces in nepal, as it is now even more necessary than before to reach a political consensus.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, as someone who has a long-standing relationship with nepal – having worked with the pro-democracy movement prior to the first-ever democratic elections, which i observed – and someone with a deep admiration for the nepali people and their determination to rebuild their country after the recent devastating earthquake, i know that one of the major concerns now is for children. there are 1.7 million vulnerable children who have been affected, many of them having lost their parents. many children have been displaced, and it is at this time that they are most at risk of being trafficked or taken by unrelated adults. it is therefore really important that we urgently put into place procedures to prevent this from happening. also, recognising that many schools have been destroyed, we need to unite and to prioritise rebuilding these schools and getting the children back into their classes so that their studies are not completely disrupted. the monsoon season is fast approaching, and this will have major consequences for the relief efforts ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, what happened in this chamber last night was a disgrace. it was an outrage. under rule 191, the efdd group requested a vote to suspend the sitting and that vote, under the rules, should have been taken immediately. instead, the vice-president took it upon herself to suspend the sitting for 30 minutes so all you guys could come down and vote. this highlights one of the reasons why many people perceive this place to be a mickey mouse chamber. you either have a rule book or you do not. you either stick by it or you rip it up and then we make it up as we go along, just as happened last night. as a result, we will be writing to president schulz to clarify that the rule book is applied evenly across this house and that we are not discriminated against, like we were last night, simply for being eurosceptics.
madam president, i have seen a lot of things pass through this place that have shocked me and have reaffirmed my conviction that britain would be better off out of here. i have to say that this report tops the lot. i would like to draw attention in particular to the split vote on paragraph 16. i will once again make it clear that i am equally disgusted by mr putin’s actions, but this report is truly frightening. it calls for the strengthening of sanctions that are damaging businesses across the continent, and, worst of all, for the european union to arm ukraine. the path to peace is not through tit-for-tat measures, and it is certainly not through the flooding of an already volatile situation – and a most fragile ceasefire – with more weapons. i have seen this situation develop, during my time in this parliament, from a few protests in kiev to the worst security crisis since the end of the cold war. the european union must stop its persistent warmongering; russia must ensure that it abides by the minsk peace agreement; and all sides need to get back around the negotiating table and work out a proper and lasting peace deal.
madam president, rarely can the phrase ‘armchair generals’ have applied quite so literally. here we have the armchairs, and in our rhetoric in these reports we are adopting the most belligerent tone when, in reality, the european union is considering lifting even the feeble sanctions it has already imposed on the kremlin if russia stops advancing further. the annexation of crimea has, in effect, been accepted by all sides. the reason that i suggest we have this dichotomy is because we have a guilty conscience. we feel that we stirred up a problem that we were not then prepared to support with the resources – military and financial – that it would have required to rescue our own victims. the good news is that the european union is not the sole organ of foreign policy. in ukraine, my own country has been most strongly engaged with canada and the us in providing assistance and advice to ukrainian forces and, as long as nato rather than the eu remains the basis of our security, we may yet avoid a total failure.
in writing. – i voted against the final report on "the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia". this report represents an increasingly militarised eu approach to the situation in the region. given sinn féin’s commitment to irish neutrality i voted against many aspects within the report that called for a greater militarised approach. the final report included aspects such as the possibility of mobilising european naval and airspace assets to the black sea; and called on nato to continue to develop its cyber and missile defence capabilities. the report also urged the commission to support the member states in their efforts to identify solutions by which to raise their defence budget to the level of 2% and welcomed the pledge made by members of nato to ensure that their defence spending reaches a minimum of 2% of gdp by 2024. increased military spending, especially in a time of economic crisis where ordinary people are already suffering as a result of savage budget cuts, is deplorable. the militarised approach this report advocates would only escalate tensions further in the region. this is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the military situation in the black sea should be a matter for nato, not the european union. whilst i disagree with russia’s actions in the crimea, i believe that the european union is likely to make matters worse rather than better.
in writing. ‒ i support nato members committing to spend the agreed 2% of gdp on defence; it is important for the security of all nato members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the paşcu report, given that we need to address, in a clear, decisive and comprehensive manner, changes in the strategic and security landscape of the black sea following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia. we cannot close our eyes to the fact that, through the heavy rearmament of crimea and other developments in the region, russia is creating another military launchpad, this time in the black sea. that is why we need to stick to our policy of non-recognition of russia’s annexation of the crimea and sevastopol, consider stepping up sanctions if russia’s destabilisation of eastern ukraine and illegal annexation of crimea continue, and call on the member states to act to their full potential within nato by speaking with one voice, investing in a stable neighbourhood and strengthening security cooperation with black sea coastal partner states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. russia’s challenge to the international legal order initiated in the wider black sea region generated and will further require both tactical and strategic responses from the eu and nato and from all the black sea states. the report dealing with the strategic, political and military implications of the illegal annexation of crimea and of the military conflict in eastern ukraine for the security situation in the black sea basin is thus timely and needed.
in writing. – russia’s challenge to the international legal order in the wider black sea region has generated, and will further require, both tactical and strategic responses from the eu, nato, and all the black sea states. the report dealing with the strategic, political and military implications of the illegal annexation of crimea, and of the military conflict in eastern ukraine, for the security situation in the black sea basin is thus timely and necessary.
in writing. ‒ russia’s challenge to the international legal order initiated in the wider black sea region generated and will further require both tactical and strategic responses from the eu and nato and from all the black sea states. the report dealing with the strategic, political and military implications of the illegal annexation of crimea and of the military conflict in eastern ukraine for the security situation in the black sea basin is thus timely and needed.
madam president, i feel that i have maybe done the european union a bit of a disservice. i have been here for16 years and i have been railing against fraud, waste and corruption – and heaven knows, there is plenty of it – but maybe i was unfair to pick on the european union simply for sharing attributes that go with almost all global bureaucracies, including this one. the basic problem here is not that the eu attracts bad people. of course it attracts some bad people – man is fallen, and there are always some individuals who will give in to temptation – but no more than any national government and no more than any other bureaucracy. the difference is the lack of accountability. the businessman is answerable to customers, clients and shareholders. we politicians are answerable to voters, at least in theory. but the eurocrat, the fifa delegate, the un official, the member of the international olympics committee – you name it – they are accountable only to themselves and so can concentrate on making themselves comfortable, which is why the only solution, instead of setting up more probes and more inquiries, is to take power closer to the people so that you cut out the opportunity for the corruption.
madam president, i voted against amendment 19. while i totally agree that we should all condemn the alleged corruption in fifa, i find it astonishing that, once again, politicians in this chamber should call for more gender quotas, this time hidden within a resolution about corruption in fifa. how is this going to resolve the corruption?
in writing. ‒ this report calls upon the commission to take action with regard to the governance of football. whilst i deplore what has been going on in fifa, this eu power grab is all about the politicisation of sport. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution. fifa has been seriously damaged by the recent allegations of corruption and i question sepp blatter’s decision to remain as interim leader. we need a thorough examination of past events in full cooperation with law enforcement agencies, and to ensure that fifa upholds the highest standards of governance, transparency and accountability going forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption cases in fifa because we cannot allow money laundering, racketeering, bribery and fraud to undermine our societies. done the right way, events like the world cup have the potential to bring people together and create jobs and growth. but done the wrong way, as is the case with fifa, it spreads corruption along with its devastating impact on society and eats away at quality employment. one only needs to look at qatar – whose appointment as host of the cup is incomprehensible – where migrant workers are enslaved on world cup construction sites and are dying at a rate of one every two days, according to recent reports. we cannot be complicit in this. the eu should exert pressure on fifa when it operates in the european market and do all in its power to make sure fifa starts playing by the rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe greater transparency and accountability are needed in the governing of football. football plays a huge role in the lives of many people, including many of my constituents, and they expect better when it comes to the operation of their sport. hosting the world cup is not only a political badge of honour but draws the world’s attention, and a lot of its money, to the host nation. as we have seen, the lure of the world cup has led to a worldwide scandal of corruption in football, implicating politicians and fifa itself. it is therefore beyond the right time for the international community to demand better standards of fifa and the processes it uses to allocate the host countries of its premier competition.
in writing. ‒ recent corruption allegations against the international football federation fifa have seriously damaged the credibility and the integrity of global football. i therefore voted in favour of a resolution calling for a zero-tolerance policy on corruption in football, underlining that in-depth structural reforms within the organisation are now urgently needed. the resolution also welcomes joseph blatter’s resignation as fifa president and calls on the federation to select an interim leader to replace him. fifa should put in place a transparent, balanced and democratic decision-making process, including for the election of the new president, to restore its integrity.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the resolution. with it parliament asks for a strong commitment from fifa, as well as other sports organisations, to fight corruption and implement a code of conduct and a zero-tolerance policy on corruption in sport.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report as it calls for a pro-active response from the eu and uefa to tackle corruption in an organisation well known across the eu and the world – an organisation that should be promoting human rights and setting an example to the young people who are so invested in football.
in writing. ‒ fifa has operated for many years as an unaccountable, opaque and notoriously corrupt organisation. the recent arrests confirm that the fraud and corruption in fifa are systemic, widespread and persistent rather than involving isolated cases of misconduct, as claimed by former fifa president joseph blatter.
in writing. ‒ it has been deeply disconcerting to witness the fifa corruption scandal unfold. integrity is a vital component of sport, strongly linked to the values of solidarity, the promotion of peace and social inclusion that football can engender. this is why we must restore trust in sporting institutions and fight against all forms of corruption. therefore i voted in favour of parliamentʼs resolution calling for a greater collaboration between all stakeholders – including public authorities, sports associations, athletes and supporters – to urgently and thoroughly address the issue of corruption. i particularly welcome the emphasis the resolution places on the need to promote education and strengthen preventative actions. i strongly agree that fifa must implement structural reforms in order to bring about transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ for many years the allegations of corruption and foul play against fifa have been wide and varied. the resignation of sepp blatter and the subsequent criminal investigations will shed light on much of this and will mark a chance for the organisation to clean up its reputation, finding space in the headlines related to football rather than scandal. clearly there needs to be an investigation into the awarding of the 2018 and 2022 world cups to russia and qatar respectively. a key aim of fifa is to further the causes of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. few could legitimately argue that a country waging war against a sovereign state and another employing migrant workers with few rights to build the infrastructure for the event itself embody those values. on this note, i think we should also take time to question the value in awarding the inaugural european games to azerbaijan by the european olympic committee. civil and human right abuses are well documented in that country and i would question the value in offering any international endorsement to such a regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliamentʼs resolution calling for a greater collaboration between all stakeholders, including public authorities, sports associations, athletes and supporters, to urgently and thoroughly address the issue of corruption. i particularly welcome the emphasis the resolution places on the need to promote education and strengthen preventative actions. i strongly agree that fifa must implement structural reforms in order to bring about transparency and accountability.
in writing. ‒ it has been deeply disconcerting to witness the fifa corruption scandal unfold. integrity is a vital component of sport, strongly linked to the values of solidarity, the promotion of peace and social inclusion that football can engender. this is why we must restore trust in sporting institutions and fight against all forms of corruption. therefore i voted in favour of parliamentʼs resolution calling for a greater collaboration between all stakeholders, including public authorities, sports associations, athletes and supporters, to urgently and thoroughly address the issue of corruption. i particularly welcome the emphasis the resolution places on the need to promote education and strengthen preventative actions. i strongly agree that fifa must implement structural reforms in order to bring about transparency and accountability.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i would also like to thank the latvian presidency for their time in office. i know this is their last part-session. one of the problems holding back competitiveness in the eu is that, whatever the problem, the solutions proposed here seem to be more europe and more regulation; and while we in the ecr campaign against red tape that holds back businesses from creating jobs, as we consider the issues to be discussed at the summit – greece and the mediterranean crisis – the solution seems to be not more red tape, but more sticking plaster, more band-aid. consider the patient that is the greek economy. each time we approach another greek crisis, rather than sticking to the medicine, we propose more sticking plaster. the solution is yet again more expensive sticking plaster in the form of a bailout, until the next greek crisis when the solution is yet again more sticking plaster – bailout or restructuring – until the next greek crisis, and so on. if and when we reach another deal, how long will it be before we are back here again in this chamber debating the same issues? how long until the eurozone runs out of sticking plaster? how long will this blame game go on between the member states, with northern eurozone countries arguing that they can afford to keep greece in the euro but not being honest with their taxpayers that a currency union requires fiscal transfers from the richer countries to the poorer countries – probably for ever? the greek government has to play its role and also behave responsibly, as other group leaders have said. it is time to stop the sticking plaster. it is time to start sticking to the rules. if we look at the crisis in the mediterranean, there is no easy answer, despite what many people claim. we cannot let no one in, yet we cannot let everyone in. but until we have a strategy, we will simply be providing lifeboats, plucking unfortunate desperate people from the sea. the commission’s plan raises some important issues – targeting traffickers, processing applications and returning those not fleeing persecution; helping those in failing states on the front line. but while some eu countries could probably do more to help, proposing a quota system was a mistake because, instead of cooperation, the commission has proposed coercion. so instead of solidarity, we now have polarity. instead of countries working with each other, we have countries arguing with each other. let us come together in a spirit of cooperation to alleviate the suffering of those in countries from which people flee, to process genuine applications before they make that hazardous journey, and to target the people traffickers who sell a false hope – not another sticking plaster solution until a future summit. and on security and defence, cooperation on coordination, not coercion, should be the principle that we will abide by. in country after country, election after election, the voters are saying what the ecr has been saying: europe cannot go on as it, europe has to change. so as the british prime minister david cameron introduces ideas for reform, do not see it as simply a shopping list for britain, but seize it as a chance for genuine reform of the eu. then, maybe, all of us in the eu will be better placed to face the challenges: the challenges within our borders, the challenges at our borders, and the challenges beyond our borders.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, during last year’s european elections we in ukip were told that we were mad – crazy – when we spoke about a european army. now mr timmermans has just said – and i quote – ‘a european army is a long-term european objective’. so thank you very much, mr timmermans, for clarifying that position before the referendum. it is clear to me that the three most important issues at this european council are: how the european union will deal with the issue of immigration; the controversial ttip deal; and, of course, greece. firstly, the problems surrounding migration were brought home to meps yesterday, because a number of british representatives could not get here because of the chaos in calais, where a workers’ strike resulted in migrants running amok and boarding lorries and cars trying to make their way to the uk, and as a consequence, the channel tunnel was closed. but this is nothing compared to what is to come. there are half a million migrants in the mediterranean waiting to make their way through europe, and frighteningly, there are another half a million making their way through africa and the middle east – and what is worse is that we do not know who these people really are. we are told that isis is using this chaos to import their wicked and warped ideology onto our continent, which makes the next terrorist attack not a case of if, but when and where. the answer is not a common eu asylum policy. mr timmermans, i have a better suggestion. the answer is an australian-style ring of steel, which protects our borders and sends out a clear message that europe is not a soft touch. now, let us move on to ttip. we all know how worried you lot are about ttip by the way you behaved in strasbourg earlier this month. you cancelled the vote on ttip; you silenced any debate on the issue; you ignored millions of citizens across europe who have legitimate concerns. let me make this clear: ttip is a corporatist scam which will hurt workers, consumers, pensions, farmers and small businesses. it gives an unfair advantage to large corporations. it is a lobbyist’s dream. there are 30 000 lobbyists here in brussels – that is over 40 per mep. there are more lobbyists here than there are in washington dc, and therefore it is no surprise to me that the commission and the big groups in this parliament support ttip. people are concerned about the damaging effects of ttip. we should put aside our political differences and stand united against this secretive stitch-up. on a final note, my heart goes out to the people of greece, who are being impoverished by the european union. to witness the cradle of democracy being threatened by the brussels bully-boys is a truly sickening sight. so let us stand together against ttip and stand united in our support of the people of greece.
mr president, i shall be brief. it is indeed a great honour and pleasure to have the speaker of a parliament that represents over a billion people in india, the largest democracy in the world, and it is the first time we have had the speaker of the lok sabha here in 16 years, so it is a particular honour and pleasure. i did say in our discussions earlier that there were many views about the future of europe, and i think listening to the discussion in the last few minutes she will have had a flavour of some of that variety of views. parliamentarians can be extremely helpful in pushing forward the relationship with a great country like india. we do need the summit which now is going to take place in november, we do need to make progress on the free trade agreement, and thanks to the efforts of parliamentarians on both sides, i hope that will now go forward at a more accelerated pace. i would just share two very brief words that the speaker of the lok sabha mentioned in her discussion with us earlier today: ‘nurture nature’ was one of the things that she mentioned to us, and the other was that we should take less, and give more. i think these were very wise words and ones that we could all remember. you are very welcome.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, our priority is jobs, growth and competitiveness. it is unfortunate that europe has endured very low levels of investment since 2007. i therefore welcome efsi. it is a responsible and ambitious programme that will maximise use of public finance and, at the same time, encourage investment from the private sector. i am pleased to note that the fund will be managed by the european investment bank, and i am also content that the multiannual financial framework (mff) remains unaltered. that means no additional call on taxpayers’ money. but i do have concerns: first that, in application, this really is a new financial instrument doing a new job, not just an extension of current schemes; second, it is important that additionality really does mean spreading excellence and widening participation. i also have concerns about whether smaller businesses and research facilities will be sufficiently aware that the funding is available and whether it will be readily accessible. finally, i have a warning to member states. the measures being taken by the investment bank, the central bank and the commission will go a long way towards injecting life back into the european economy. i commend the commissioners for that, and they have my full support. but i have to stress that efsi is not a substitute for structural reforms and sound public finances in the member states, nor can it be an excuse for a lack of urgency in single market reform.
blue-card question.– mr karas, i agree with you that this is a good day for the european parliament, because this fund is an important opportunity to boost investment and growth in the eu. but on the financing side of the fund, i am still concerned that important parts of it will be taken out of horizon 2020, cutting into a very important r&d budget. i would like to ask you what you think about that. are you also concerned about the limited time-frame of the fund? does it not put at risk the objectives?
mr president, i admit i have got serious concerns about this project’s ability to deliver value for money and whether it will actually help small and medium-sized businesses or merely become an avalanche of paperwork. my colleague marco zanni put it very well when he said that we are socialising losses and privatising profit. if you want a case study of why this kind of thing does not work, you have only got to look at the british labour party and the disastrous pfi (private finance initiative) that was introduced, part-privatising our british nhs. when we voted on this matter in committee, the words used by one of the rapporteurs about the aims of this project were particularly telling. he said: ‘we asked the question: would you use your own plastic, your own personal credit card to pay for a project like this?’ then after all the negotiations, he said at the end, ‘well, i am not sure whether people would still use their plastic on this project’. well, i have got news for you: when you spend money it is your credit card we are using, but it is also mine, and everybody else’s credit card across the whole of europe, and that is what we need to think of before spending taxpayers’ money.
mr president, dear colleagues, many of you will know that efsi is not a new concept for the eib. they successfully carried out a programme of pilot project bonds in the last mandate, which demonstrated investor interest in their projects. they also showed the ability of the eib to utilise leverage responsibly and transparently in order to facilitate private sector investment in european projects. a similar investment vehicle has recently been utilised by switzerland, and it seems that long-term investor groups are keen to participate in well-chosen and well—implemented investment opportunities. we should be under no illusion that eur 315 billion is only the first tranche of investments which the eu needs to collectively mobilise to achieve growth in its economies. however, this fund should facilitate billions of euros of private sector capital, from within the eu and across the world, to finance infrastructure, business and innovation. it seems that the member states have already put forward more projects than can be funded using this project. i therefore welcome the new eu investment portal, as it enables long-term investors to identify further investment opportunities independent of efsi.
mr president, firstly i would just like to say that i very much welcome the creation of efsi and the opportunity that it provides in the uk as well as in all the other european union countries for investment in infrastructure, smes and green growth. just this morning i had a meeting with people from my region who were talking about efsi as being a vital source of funding for the significant energy infrastructure gap that we have, which is a promising sign of where it can be used. however, additionality is absolutely the key, and that is why the source of the funding for efsi is a challenge, and it is a challenge that we are going to have to keep coming back to. taking the money from horizon 2020, which is already a successful means of support for our economy, was the wrong source, and we need to keep going back to this – and we will do so in the 2016 budget negotiations.
mr president, the wise roman philosopher marcus cicero once said: ‘any man makes mistakes, but only an idiot persists in his error’. europe has faced economic tragedy for nearly a decade. tragically, we see this played out in greece on a daily basis – youth unemployment at 51% and the highest rates of suicide in any western civilised nation. this economic misery is not confined only to greece – it is in portugal, italy, spain, and croatia. the common factor of this misery is their membership of the european union, its bureaucratic controls, over-regulation and lack of democratic accountability. there is a feeling that people do not matter, only the eu matters. instead of recognising its mistake – that it is the eu state that is the problem, not the nation state – instead of looking at countries that are succeeding in the global economy, like china, india, australia and brazil, the eu persists in its error by issuing reports such as this from the socialist mep madame berès. instead of freeing people, it states that the eu must take control of all the countries’ economic, financial and fiscal affairs. instead of looking to the future, you look to the past with a ‘command economy’ ideology. instead of unleashing economic liberalism – looking outwards and trading globally – you continue to make the same mistakes. in the words of cicero, europe can no longer afford to allow the idiots to persist in their errors. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – indeed, your country has faced economic problems. i cannot think that you would disagree that you have high rates of unemployment and that you experienced a drop in gdp upon the immediate connection with the european union. this is my point: the very fact is that once you joined the european union, your gdp, unemployment and inflation were impacted by the overregulation and undemocratic control of this place. that is why i am suggesting that you would have been better off outside the european union, not shackled to the euro and its devastating effect on the people of your country.
in writing.– i welcome the beres report on the review of the economic governance framework. the recent crisis in greece demonstrates that it is high time we reform this framework. this report acknowledges the need to address the lack of investment and the long-lasting low inflation situation within the euro area, and to improve the current economic framework. furthermore, it stresses the need to make better use of flexibility within the stability and growth pact, insisting on the added value of flexibility to bridge the investment gap and ensure better implementation of the rules regarding growth. it further underlines that macroeconomic imbalances need to be tackled and the role of national parliaments and the european parliament needs to be strengthened. finally, i believe we should reinforce the five presidents report on the future of the economic union in the coming months in order to make the economic governance structure in the euro area more effective.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, thank you very much for this very lively discussion. we heard all the different opinions from the latest speaker, who said basically that there should not be any rules in the economy, and then we heard somebody who said that our rules have been too loose and should be strengthened, or the rules should be a bit more strict. but the topic of the day was transparency of the application of the stability and growth pact. this is a very important topic. many people have said that the rules have not been transparent enough, and lots of questions have been raised about whether the interpretation of the rules is right. some have been saying that the commission’s interpretation has been too loose and we should have been stricter, and someone has said that we have been too strict and it should be been looser. that is why we have to pay attention to transparency, because everybody should understand what the rules mean. if there is a lack of clarity about what the rules mean, then the rules are under criticism from different directions. of course, now, when we are concentrating on the five presidents’ report, we can also assess how to further develop our rule base. i would, as a personal opinion, say that most of it should concentrate on implementation of our rules. as i said earlier, the commission has interpreted the current stability and growth pact in a very flexible way, but one whereby we can still say clearly that we have stayed within the stability and growth pact. one of the issues to which we have not paid that much attention in the past is the structural side of our economy. it is not only about deficit or debt level, but it is also about strengths or weaknesses of our structures. so i would like to turn our focus more to the structural side of our economies, because, when looking at the countries in trouble, their problems have been much more structural in nature than cyclical. that is why the stability and growth pact should be seen as an entity, not only as a framework of rules which look at whether the deficit is 0.2% higher or lower; it also should focus more on the structural side of our economy. madam president, i want to thank everyone once more for a very lively and very good discussion. i think this will not be the last time we will talk about the stability and growth pact – and it should not be, because we have to further develop european integration and also our fiscal and structural economic growth.
the president-in-office of the council. the president of the european parliament i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! i thank you for these debates. first, they showed how important it is for all of us to achieve a stable fiscal situation throughout the european union, in conditions that are sustainable and conducive to the implementation of the union's employment and growth agenda. after years of stagnation, europe is in dire need of growth, and this can be provided by the simultaneous implementation of all three priorities fiscal responsibility, just as investment and structural reforms. i cannot agree with the view expressed here that the stability and growth pact has not worked. the five presidents' report, to which we have referred many times today, also confirms the importance of fiscal responsibility and financial sustainability and the central role of the stability and growth pact in ensuring market confidence. in the long term, this will allow for the sharing of national financial risks, but this will require a number of preconditions: first, significant economic convergence; second, integration of financial markets; and third, compliance with fiscal rules. equally important, member states must demonstrate a commitment to move towards closer integration. as a last but not least prerequisite, i would like to stress the need to promote and strengthen respect for the principles of political accountability and legitimacy. to achieve all this, we will need a stronger involvement of national parliaments, the european parliament and the social partners. that means we all have a lot of work to do together. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! in closing this debate, which is indeed the last debate of the latvian presidency in the european parliament, i would like to express my deep gratitude for our very productive cooperation, for all the discussions we have had here and for all the decisions we have been able to take for the future of the european union and for the benefit of our citizens. thank you very much!
in writing.– i am glad to note that the united kingdom is outside the eurozone; indeed, the phrase ‘there but for the grace of god go i’ springs to mind. though it was not so much grace as common sense that caused britain to remain outside the economic shackles of the euro. i believe in transparency, and any pact should be applied in a transparent manner. but the project itself is fundamentally flawed, as a string of nations have found to their cost.
madam president, my colleague is unable to be here, but on behalf of the ecr group i would like to say that we do not want this matter postponed. this is a poor report; we should defeat it now.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the commission adopted a week ago its action plan for fairer and more efficient corporate taxation. that is why i have the honour to come to present our initiatives to modernise corporate taxation in the internal market. the package adopted in march focused on tax transparency. today, our field of action is broader. we aim to fundamentally reform the corporate taxation framework in europe to make it fairer, more efficient and more conducive to growth and jobs. the inadequacy of european rules on corporate taxation has made taxation an area for which the single market has yet to be built. today, the juxtaposition of 28 different tax systems is inefficient and counterproductive. ineffective, because in many cases member states are not able to collect the tax they should, which dries up their revenue and affects their stability. this is counterproductive because the proliferation, complexity and variety of standards that apply within the internal market often discourage companies from expanding beyond their national borders. we can no longer tolerate that certain companies, often the most successful, avoid paying their fair share of tax and that certain tax systems encourage them to do so. the taxation of companies in europe is unfair, because it means putting a heavier tax burden on citizens and other companies. it's socially unacceptable. more fundamentally, unfair taxation puts tax compliance at risk. finally, this situation is contrary to our objectives, because abusive practices and the race to the bottom undermine growth-friendly fiscal policies and create distortions within the single market. this last point is particularly important to me. our fight against tax evasion is not a fight against corporations. on the contrary, the majority of european companies will benefit from our action, since it is both a matter of preventing their less scrupulous competitors from gaining an unfair advantage and of refocusing tax policies on job creation and investment. the framework in place today has aged terribly. we are relying on rules developed in the 1930s to regulate the business environment of the 20th century. at international level, the oecd is working to update the international corporate taxation framework. this is a very welcome initiative, actively supported by the union. but we cannot rely on international standards alone. we must develop our own solutions for the single market to take account of its specificities. the european union needs a common and coherent approach to corporate tax reform, which poses a major obstacle to its progress: the traditional reluctance of member states to work together on this issue. indeed, they often tackle tax challenges on their own. many of them see community action in this area as a threat to their sovereignty, but the opposite is true. it is when states become exhausted with preventing the erosion of their tax base in the face of elusive profits rather than developing tax policies that meet their needs that sovereignty is compromised. fortunately, we are seeing a rise in awareness in the member states. they must completely rethink their approach to corporate taxation if they want businesses to pay their fair share of taxes, if they want sustainable tax systems to be growth-friendly, if they want a single market attractive to business and investment. in these circumstances, if they want to restore their ability to determine democratically the amount of taxes to be paid, member states have no choice but to cooperate. that is what we are proposing to them with the action plan adopted last week. ladies and gentlemen, madam president, we shall first relaunch the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base. the ccctb can both make life significantly easier for businesses and thus promote investment and job creation, prevent tax evasion and protect our single market. the idea is simple: in a single market, one tax for companies with a european dimension. it will be the end of a jumble of incompatible rules and their succession of overlapping, divergent interpretations, legal voids, multiple and sometimes contradictory obligations and the ensuing disputes. although the discussions in the council are at an impasse, parliament, the member states, businesses and other stakeholders are in favour of reviving this project. that is why the commission will review its proposal and adjust it so that the discussions can be resumed on a sound basis and, i hope, be successful. we intend to propose a mandatory cccis, at least for multinationals, because an optional system will not stop tax evasion. we will propose a step-by-step approach because the cfsp, as we proposed it, was too ambitious for us to reach an agreement immediately. preparatory work has already begun and the commission intends to present an amended proposal to you as soon as possible next year. but we cannot wait for the council to adopt the ccctb to deal with the problems of corporate taxation, which is why our action plan includes a number of measures to be implemented immediately. the effective taxation of profits within the single market is a burning issue. it is no longer acceptable that certain multinational companies which make large profits in the european union pay little or no tax. companies must pay their fair share of taxes where they make profits. to ensure this, some member states have unilaterally adopted anti-abuse provisions. however, acting in a disorganized way on these issues may create more problems than they solve. that is why our action plan lays the foundations for a common approach to effective taxation to ensure that profits generated in the union are taxed there. this requires filling legal gaps, regulating preferential regimes, reviewing the question of transfer pricing and coordinating anti-abuse provisions. we are also trying to bring in more transparency. the tax transparency package, which we proposed last march, is making good progress. i am counting on you, i am counting on this parliament to support him. last week we went even further by launching a public consultation on a country-by-country reporting system to make it more transparent about the activities of multinationals in different countries and the taxes they pay there. transparency must also extend beyond the european union, particularly to the least cooperative states and territories. some member states have drawn up lists of tax havens, others have not. some have taken retaliatory measures, others have not. this disorderly approach is not effective in discouraging the tax predation practiced by some countries outside the european union. acting as a bloc, the european union would have much more weight to repel attacks on tax bases. to this end, the commission has published a coordinated list of the 30 least cooperative states and territories, based on the national lists of the member states. the clarity provided by this coordinated list will make it possible to work towards a common approach of the european union and will encourage the countries concerned to redouble their efforts towards better cooperation. ladies and gentlemen, it is through this package of measures - the ccctb in the medium term, effective taxation, greater transparency and closer cooperation between member states in the immediate future - that we intend to make corporate taxation an instrument of economic policy for growth and employment in europe.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, playing a leading role on fair taxation does not mean legislating in isolation. i understand and share the concerns of eu citizens when it comes to large companies avoiding tax, but the eu should not delude itself that the multinational companies can be brought into a fair taxation framework via a single piece of eu legislation. it may be a sad reality, but it is a reality that people try to lower their tax contributions, and often that will mean locating activities in low-tax jurisdictions. that means companies may relocate outside of the eu to lower their tax contributions, and there is very little that the eu can do about it. there is a reason why the uk government has led the tax reform agenda at the g7 and g20. if we want corporations to pay their fair share, we need to work collectively at the level of the oecd, so that as many countries as possible work together to solve this problem. if countries all legislate at a national level, wherever in the developed world a company may be located, our problem on tax is resolved. the member states need to show leadership within the oecd and in particular press for stronger transfer pricing and permanent establishment rules to ensure companies pay the appropriate level of tax in the countries where they earn their profits. all member states individually should now take the necessary steps for early adoption of the oecd country-by-country reporting, which will help tax authorities to spot avoidance and make sure that companies pay what they owe. closer cooperation amongst eu tax authorities and their global partners will ensure that opportunities to avoid tax become fewer. the eu legislative process on vat took 10 years to negotiate and then a further 10 years to implement. a legislative route on the common corporate tax base is not an efficient way of solving the issue of corporate taxation. the easiest and fastest way to address the issue of corporate tax is to agree a solution at the oecd and then implement that solution urgently in national law.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, last autumn, europe was rocked by the luxleaks scandal. we discovered that member states had been secretly agreeing deals with multinational corporations to allow them to avoid tax. corporations were playing a game of divide and conquer with eu governments, and the losers were the people of europe. it was only because of the actions of the brave whistleblower antoine deltour that we found out about this. the commission had looked the other way. in spite of president juncker’s promises to act, it was clear that this was through desperation rather than desire, and the outcomes have been disappointing. to explore the issue of member state collusion in tax avoidance, a special committee was set up, and last week we visited london. i must confess i was shocked by the murky and elaborate system of relationships between my capital city and offshore secrecy jurisdictions, where money can be hidden and tax avoided. i think we all have to admit that our countries are involved in these activities that hurt us all and distort the single market. i welcome the commission’s list of tax havens as a first step to map this hidden world, although there is much further to go. two of the clear demands of the green group are that corporations should be required to make public how much economic substance is created in which country – so-called country-by-country reporting – and that there should be agreement about how and where corporations are taxed: the common consolidated corporate tax base, or ccctb. these are the minimum requirements we need to prevent countries shifting their profits in the interests of shareholders while depriving the public of the taxes that are necessary to pay for the roads and internet systems the companies use, the schools that educate their staff and the hospitals those staff use when they are ill. we already have country-by-country reporting for banks, so it is a simple matter to extend this to other sectors. so do we find this in the commission’s tax package? i am afraid to say we do not. instead, we have merely a viability study: a classic example of delaying tactics. next time we meet as a parliament in strasbourg, we will have the chance to vote on this vital transparency proposal, and i sincerely hope we will pass it with a large majority. as for the ccctb, the commission is promising to relaunch its proposal, beginning with the common part, so that we all agree what should be taxed. but this means they are delaying the consolidation, the aspect of the proposal that would effectively control profit-shifting and the tax avoidance it facilitates. the people i represent are appalled that corporations are able to avoid their taxes, which gives them an unfair advantage over local businesses that cannot shift their profits abroad, as well as undermining the public services we depend on. the commission’s action plan lacks determination and urgency and is a wholly inadequate response to this public outrage.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, thank you very much for the opportunity to talk on this subject. what we heard tonight is a system of the future, one of eu utopia. much more though, we believe, is required. the devil is in the detail. that is a phrase much used in the uk. we are not there yet – and we probably will never get there, so i even take the ‘yet’ away. required, though, is an eu-wide, usa-style irs system in place and its approach to deliver, and i hold that up as a system that works and addresses the issues discussed tonight. it will have to address tax collection issues, so evident in the disparities between north and south member states. and finally, i and my group believe it needs to be a global, not an eu, issue. g20 is the proper place to discuss and address this important matter, not here in brussels.
madam president, colleagues, we can wait for the whole world to agree measures against tax fiddling, or we can take action now. personally i am very pleased that the commission has acted now and welcome much of what is within this package. nonetheless, as many people have already said, the package does not go far enough to satisfy the public and the vast majority of tax-compliant businesses. the first big hole, as many have mentioned, is the lack of a commitment to public country-by-country reporting. unfortunately this has been unnecessarily postponed. we must see it being enacted soon. there is also no mention of protections for whistle-blowers, and whilst a common list of tax havens is better than nothing at all, we surely need a common definition of tax havens to give that list credibility. furthermore there must be consequences for those countries and firms which are classified as tax havens or which use tax havens. they should not be able to profit from eu funds. finally, i am sorry to say that i do harbour some doubts about the commission’s proposed loss adjustment mechanism. a 2011 oecd report indicated how, and i quote, ‘financial instruments are used to create artificial losses, i.e. losses which are only generated for tax purposes’. the commission must ensure the loss adjustment mechanism does not perversely promote aggressive tax planning. thank you again for your work on this and i look forward to much more over the months to come.
blue-card question.– i find it astonishing that you speak of action to be taken at european union level against corporate tax avoidance and evasion, and you speak about action to be taken at global level – but nothing about the member state, which surely is the most appropriate vehicle for any such action to be taken. do you agree that that is rather a big omission?
madam president, last week i visited the mediterranean to see the humanitarian crisis. i visited a centre for young migrants in catania with accommodation for 36, but housing 64. i visited a reception centre in pessalo holding hundreds of migrants in conditions worse than in prison. i held a two-month-old old baby called falestine whose cot is a dirty mattress in a small box—room which also sleeps six women. i hugged a young girl called happy. in lampedusa, 400 migrants and refugees are living in overcrowded, cramped conditions. sometimes there are 1 500; many of them are in the same clothes for two weeks. the situation is sickening, but nobody puts their children on a boat unless the water is safer than land. we do not need more frontex: we need more compassion. we need more search and rescue in the mediterranean, and we need more safe and legal access to member states.
madam president, it is a quarter to 11 at night and there is nobody here, but there are some people who are interested in some of the things that we do. i have had 10 000 e-mails in the last month about the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), which we were due to vote on a couple of weeks ago in strasbourg – that is 10 000 interested constituents and millions of interested constituents all over the continent. we were due to vote here in the european parliament. there you have some engagement – we are thinking about something and they are interested in it. you would think that would be good news. so what did we do? we cancelled the vote and the discussion because there had been too many amendments and we were not quite ready to do it. we will have had a month by july, so please can we have the vote and the discussion next month and not leave it – and leave these millions of interested people – until the autumn before we bring this back? that would be ridiculous.
in writing. ‒ this is not a matter which was subject to a roll-call vote. i note that mr zarianopoulos wished to address the chamber and explain his perspective on this case, but was not permitted to do so. i understand that this is an application of rule 9(8) of parliament’s rules of procedure, and believe that this should be considered for a future rule change. the ‘accused’ should have the opportunity to present their case. i further note that there was no debate. for the above reasons, on this occasion i decided to abstain rather than vote in favour of waiving immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the report to waive the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, given the prosecution was initiated a number of years before mr zarianopoulos took up his mandate as mep.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the labour party and the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report, following the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs to waive the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, and allow a criminal investigation to take place in his member state into alleged crimes which took place before his election to parliament. waiving immunity will allow for due process to take place and the course of justice to run its path.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ there is no reason to assume that the intention underlying the criminal proceedings is to damage a member’s political activity, given that the prosecution was initiated a number of years before the member took up his post. for this reason, we voted to waive the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of transparency i would like to confirm that i voted in favour of this waiver.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report to waive the immunity of udo voigt who is accused of incitement and collective insults in a publication issued by the national democratic party at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup, given the proceedings were initiated a number of years before mr voigt took up his mandate in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the labour party and the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report, following the recommendation by the committee on legal affairs to waive the immunity of udo voigt, a german mep, to allow for a criminal investigation to take place in his member state into alleged crimes which took place prior to his election to the european parliament. waiving immunity will allow for due process to take place and the course of justice to run its path.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ there can be no suspicion of any attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of udo voigt behind the proceedings, as they were initiated a number of years before he assumed his seat in the european parliament. we voted to waive the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that this fund will achieve its stated aims, and also have serious misgivings about the means by which capital is to be raised. public-private partnerships, as shown by the pfi schemes in the uk, combine not the best but the worst of public and private sectors.
in writing. ‒ the final drafting protects the current multiannual financial framework (mff), does not allow for politicisation of the guarantee, reduces redeployment from horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility (cef) by eur 1 billion, as well as ensuring the protection of basic research funding and a continual assessment of the impact on affected budget lines. the fund is also limited to three years with the possibility of renewal subject to an independent assessment. for this reason i am happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). although it draws funding from other budgets, which i opposed, i welcome the signal of a shift towards investment after many years of cuts. it is an important step in the right direction. i will now be working to ensure that wales gets the maximum benefit from efsi.
in writing. ‒ i could not quite bring myself to vote for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). europe needs investment. commissioner katainen and colleagues are working hard to encourage investors and public/private partnerships can help. knowing the european investment bank (eib) has ʽskin in the gameʼ may reassure investors, especially in less secure parts of europe. but efsi does take money from the horizon 2020 science and research budget. parliament amendments have managed to reduce the hit and to ring-fence frontier research. we have saved the precious erc grants. the commission has stated they will not cut basic science. they have said that more money will come into research through efsi than before. this is extremely helpful. but i know that many individuals in our research organisations are still worried, as are our universities. horizon 2020 was not perfect – but it was negotiated through five years of consultation with front-line researchers from organisations large and small from all across europe. it did have the confidence and support of scientists, so changing the rules has put a dent in their confidence. sometimes policy does need to change, and efsi may be better than horizon 2020 but we must involve those on the front line much earlier on to keep their trust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation for a european fund for strategic investments given it is an important opportunity to boost investment in the eu. it should focus on long-term investment in infrastructure that is geared up for the future. therefore it is crucial that the right projects are selected in areas such as renewable energy and the digital market. furthermore, i welcome the fact that the fund will also focus on investment in the creative industry. on the financing side of the fund however, i am still concerned that an important part will be taken out of horizon 2020, cutting into the eu budget for research and development. i am also concerned about the fact that the fund will be limited in time, and i hope this will not affect its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the labour party and the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report to help implement the eu’s eur 315 billion plan to overcome the crisis-induced shortage of investment in the european economy. this initiative should entail no extra financial burden for taxpayers. the aim of the european fund for strategic investment (efsi), to be run by the european investment bank, is to provide public support for projects that are economically viable, but would not otherwise happen because private investors are hesitant to finance them due to the uncertain economic situation and the higher risk involved. efsi will assume part of that risk, thus encouraging private investors to get on board.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) as it marks the beginning of a positive project aimed at boosting much needed capital investment across europe. key to this investment plan must be the funding of small, locally based projects in member states. we need a strong economic recovery with its foundations in towns and cities boosting employment and capital investment. i would urge that the strategy going forward gives stronger credence to the positives of economic investment at a local and regional level. in january 2015, the commission had proposed trimming eur 2.7 billion from horizon 2020’s budget, including eur 221.2 million from the european research council to feed efsi. i deeply regret this proposal and continue to call for the protection of this essential research funding. as a result of ongoing pressure from european parliamentarians, the horizon 2020 funding will now be cut by eur 2.2 billion instead of eur 2.7billion. although i welcome this improvement, i remain of the opinion that any further attempt to plunder the horizon 2020 fund should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a renegotiated investment deal on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), a new tool to boost growth and job creation in europe. billions of pounds from efsi could now be used for british infrastructure, smes, and green growth.
in writing. – in order to maximise the employment impact of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), member states should continue to undertake structural reforms that are effective and economically and socially sustainable, as well as other initiatives such as training programmes and active labour market policies, the support of conditions for the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, and investment in targeted social policies. member states should also undertake additional activities such as customised training programmes to match the skills of workers to the needs of sectors benefiting from the efsi, tailor-made business services for enterprises to prepare them to expand and create more jobs, as well as support for start-ups and self-employed individuals. for these reasons, i voted in support of the efsi report.
in writing. ‒ the proposed european fund for strategic investments is not perfect in design: i remain sceptical over the decision to strip horizon 2020 of eur 2.5 billion, particularly from collaborative research and societal challenges, and it would have been preferable to source the guarantee from the margins of the eu budget. the development of the plan also needs to be scrutinised to ensure that the commission’s promises of a leverage multiplier of 15 with private money comes to fruition. nevertheless, the plan provides the opportunity to front-load important spending on renewable energy projects, energy efficiency, electricity and transport networks, and seed capital for smes, at a time when europe is crying out for investment capital: under this plan many projects which otherwise would have been tied up in red tape for years can be brought forward now. in addition, parliament has improved the commission’s original proposal, such as through the governance of the fund and the criteria for project selection. scotland can benefit significantly, from north sea marine energy grids to electric car infrastructure to renovation of buildings for energy savings. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against.
in writing. ‒ conservatives believe that it is essential that eu expenditure is closely scrutinised on the basis of value for money and in line with this approach, we do not believe the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an efficient tool that offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for workers who have lost their jobs in large-scale closures. this report will improve monitoring and the functioning of the fund, as well as creating a network for sharing best practice. wales has suffered from large-scale job losses and could qualify for use of the fund. however, despite repeated requests, the government refuses to apply. i will continue to work to get the same benefits for welsh workers as those in other countries of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given i believe it is important that the application procedure of the european globalisation adjustment fund is simplified and general awareness of the fund and its visibility are increased.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as it covers technical assistance to finance monitoring, for information, to create a knowledge base interface and to advise member states on using, following up and evaluating the european globalisation adjustment fund, a fund that gives assistance to reintegrate into the labour market workers made redundant owing to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ meps today voted in support of the commission proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). it concerns the mobilisation of eur 630 000 from the fund, covering technical assistance for the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information, to create a knowledge base interface and to advise member states on using, following up and evaluating the egf.
in writing. ‒ this report has little to commend it, and much applies only to the eurozone. it was consistent with ukip principles for me to vote against.
in writing. ‒ there is not much stocktaking in the report and the proposals made do not correspond to ecr’s position. there are calls for the next steps to deepen the economic and monetary union (emu) to be explored, which would include euro area fiscal capacity based on specific own-resources, a common deposit guarantee scheme, the inclusion of the european stability mechanism (esm) in union law, a minimum wage or income mechanism, a euro area mechanism to allow debt reduction and upgrading euro area external representations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it contributes in a significant way to the debate on the review of the economic governance framework, as it acknowledges the need to address the lack of investment and the long-lasting low inflation situation within the euro area, and to improve the current economic framework. furthermore, it stresses to improve use of flexibility within the stability and growth pact, requiring added value of flexibility to bridge the investment gaps and ensuring better implementation of the rules regarding growth. i welcome the underlining of macro-economic imbalances that should be tackled with greater vision and support strengthening the role of national and european parliaments. furthermore, we should reinforce the five presidents’ report on the future of the economic union forthwith.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the labour party and the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report as this report aims to assess the effectiveness of the legal framework, particularly whether the provisions governing decision-making have proved sufficiently robust and whether the progress in ensuring closer coordination of economic policies and sustained convergence of economic performances of the member states is in accordance with the tfeu. the report is based on this background and on the analysis of the first years of the implementation of the economic governance framework as it was modified during the crisis. the report observes that the new provisions have not allowed to take adequately into account the cumulative, europe-wide effect of policies pursued at national level, in particular of the aggregate fiscal stance, and therefore have not addressed the risks stemming from growing divergences among euro area economies, the threat of deflation, low growth and high unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report. this report was authorized by the conference of presidents at the very beginning of the new term with the ultimate view of providing an input on the way forward for the economic and monetary union (emu). as the negotiation process on the report became longer than planned the report has not been adopted in time to contribute to the completion of the president’s report on emu. the ongoing impact of the economic crisis and the austerity-driven response across europe has underlined the need for a more equal, self-sufficient view on economic governance. i reject the report’s whole-hearted endorsement of austerity in reducing excessive imbalances in deficit countries and i would rather see a focus on investment in capital projects alongside a proper account of the social aspects of the emu. the report as a whole is a bad recipe which lacks vision for ensuring the long-term sustainable future of the emu.
in writing. – labour meps voted in favour of the report on the review of the economic governance framework. the euro area lacks a proper evaluation of its global economic situation, as one sharing the same currency needs to have. this has been made obvious by the appearance of strong divergences that the current crisis and the intervention of the troika have even increased and by the historical fall of investment in the eu. the rapporteur proposes to upgrade the euro area recommendation prepared by the commission, thus to make it compulsory and to adopt it earlier during the spring council.
mr president, i just want to say that we are fully in favour of having that debate on thursday, but tomorrow there are indeed commemorations. tomorrow evening, our alliance of european conservatives and reformists is having a whole evening of commemorative events, and of course we would invite all members to come and join us.
blue-card question.– i wonder if the gentleman might agree with me that the reason that london’s capital markets are so successful is that they are not completely dominated by the european union. any interference from this house, making problems for our capital markets, is not desirable because it is not capitalist-inclined, it is socialist-inclined, and that does not sit well with worldwide financial markets. would the gentleman agree with me?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the greek people overwhelmingly defied the bullying tactics and anti-democratic tactics of the eu, the ecb and the imf yesterday. they rejected a disastrous bailout deal created by technocrats in a vacuum detached from the misery of the ordinary greek people. the euro was the cause of that misery, and it too was created by technocrats in a vacuum detached from the real people and, in this case, the financial markets. this idea of the capital markets union is also one of those technocratic dreams of centralised control; it is being created in a vacuum once again. as mr hill said, ‘it is a classic eu plan’. europe is not a country; it is individual countries with decent people within it. the european technocrats do not, and never will, understand what the people need or what they want. the euro failed greece because it was a failed plan. the capital markets union will be one of those failures once again. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – sir, that completely answers my case. you fail to understand that the london market is an international market. it is a capital market with investors from all over the globe coming into london investing in companies all over the globe because they understand the risks in those countries; they understand the risks in those businesses. unlike in europe, those businesses are not controlled by the eu; they do not have to take the eu’s negative regulations, they do not have to take the costs of the eu unemployment and they do not have to take all the damaging issues that the eu puts on small, medium-sized and large businesses, which is driving business out of europe. that is why the rest of the world is succeeding.
mr president, my congratulations go to the authors. we have a good paper that demonstrates, in a clear way, the priorities of parliament on cmu – to increase growth and jobs across the eu – and, more critically, that underlines that growth has to be sustainable and should not prejudice financial stability. i support the emphasis on timing. given that cmu should have been in place a decade ago, it is high time that we step up a gear on this. commissioner, you said that in the autumn we are to receive two new regulations on securitisation and the prospectus directive. we eagerly await those. however, there are many difficult political obstacles that we need to tackle, and many colleagues have referred to them: the lack of consistent implementation by member states, the 29 different tax regimes for debt, and likewise for insolvency procedures. does the commission have any plans to tackle these in the near future? furthermore, if we are going to review the cmu over the next four years, is it not an omission not to address the technological innovations in the financial sector? this is evolving very fast, but the regulators and legislators are not keeping up with it. we also have to acknowledge that confidence in the financial services has taken a knock. perhaps the events of yesterday evening, with the greek referendum, are not likely to shake that. so how do we restore this position? one way could be if the commission came forward with an ambitious retail package, tackling the cross-border obstacles that citizens and businesses are faced with in financial services. many procedures remain a nightmare for retail investors and businesses alike. let us not forget our overall objective, which is to make the eu an attractive place to do business. (the speaker refused to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
oh come on, be brave!
mr president, we welcome the capital markets union, the commission’s flagship project to tackle the problem of under-investment in our productive businesses across the single market. with investment now 70% below its pre-crisis levels, there is an urgent need to invest and particularly to invest in the sustainable sectors of our economy. we support the call for any redesign of capital markets to be orientated towards the needs of small businesses that have been starved of investment, rather than serving the interest of financiers. we will not accept any deregulation in the name of market integration, particularly if it weakens stability or the protection of people’s savings. while strong regulation is essential, it must match the size and scope of the investment and should not be allowed to choke off local investment schemes. in south-west england, which i represent, we are beginning to see the growth of local investment, particularly in community renewables projects. here the local connection ensures accountability more effectively than a heavily bureaucratic process which might instead undermine these vital green shoots.
blue-card question.– i have a very simple question. you congratulated the rapporteur and shadow rapporteur on an excellent green paper, but is growth in europe caused by the fact that we do not have a capital markets union, or is it caused by the fact that our companies are uncompetitive because they are over-regulated and highly taxed and have huge levels of uncompetitiveness between countries? it is one or the other. which one are you choosing?
mr president, i would just like to say that the most successful capital market in the european union is the city of london, and if the european union is going to inflict more regulation and annoyance on that institution, many of the world-wide companies who invest there will go abroad. they will set up in singapore or hong kong or somewhere else. they will not remain within the european union. the euro, which was a political currency and not an economic currency, is on the frontiers of leading to a grexit, with greece leaving the european union and the euro. the imposition of these financial rules on the city of london will very soon lead to a brexit, and that, i believe, will be the end of the european union. that may not upset my party very much, but you gentlemen are heading for disaster. yet again you never learn. you have not learned from the euro and you will not learn from this.
mr president, i agree that the circular economy is vital to europe’s future economic viability, and i also agree that we need to be ambitious. so i have no complaint at all with the thrust of ms pietikäinen’s report. but i find myself in some difficulty, as indeed i did in committee, in terms of supporting the report in its entirety as it stands. this is for one reason only: whilst i passionately believe in all of these things, i also believe in evidence-based policy-making, and in setting out a credible legislative framework. so, before we start setting absolute numbers in our targets, we should carefully examine the impact of doing so. i have seen so often before that an own initiative report like this becomes not just indicative but somehow binding, with parliament, in examining the legislative report when it comes forward, seeing any variance from these numbers as an unacceptable lessening and loosening of its position. a good example of this is the call for 70% recycling and reuse for municipal waste: very laudable – i support it. but before such targets can be considered, they must be underpinned by indicators to assess and measure improvements. there needs to be an impact assessment – we need to make sure that this is done properly – and i regret that we were unable to get some of these absolute numbers, rather than principles, removed from what is an own initiative report.
mr president, the rapporteur addresses the need for the european union to become more competitive, to create jobs, increase productivity and improve its use of resources: all worthy aims. however, to achieve these objectives, she states the european union should avoid exceeding the earth’s resources, which would also mitigate climate change. there has been no discernible global warming for the last 18 years, even if you support the ipcc theory. how can anyone still believe that the key to making the european union competitive is to establish a new legislative framework? for example, the proposal for an eco-design directive will impose eu ecological design requirements on products. how can anyone still believe that a new european policy framework would deliver legal certainty to investors? who can afford to invest in such an environment? nonsensical over-regulation from the european commission will not help our economy or industries. it is now clear that regulatory uncertainty is one of the biggest threats to investment and production. new legislation imposed by the unelected in brussels will not ensure the re-industrialisation of europe. we need to reinvigorate the declining eu economy with a new competitive approach.
mr president, resource efficiency and the circular economy are exciting opportunities to deliver benefits for the environment, promote new ways to tackle climate change and create jobs. to focus on one element of the report we will, hopefully, adopt on wednesday, the 2050 horizon for sustainable use of resources in the eu contains a provision to implement the principle of cascading use of resources, notably in the use of biomass. ‘cascading use’ means prioritising the most advanced applications of resources before burning them for fuel. this is particularly true of wood, which can be used in construction, manufacturing, textiles, the automotive industry and even food production, all of which have the potential to create jobs. in regions such as my own in the north-east of england, this report will help companies such as robertson’s, which specialises in wooden frames for houses, reopen their factory in county durham, providing a vital boost for the local economy. put simply, resource efficiency means more jobs.
rapporteur.– mr president, i would like to begin by thanking my shadow rapporteurs for their constructive input throughout this whole process. they say that a week is a long time in politics, but certainly i have to say that a year has been an extremely long time for dairy farmers over this last 12 months. since last year, global supply has continued to outstrip global demand. we have seen the chinese pull back from the market; we have seen the russian embargo, and we have seen prices continue to tumble. we need only look at last week’s global dairy trade auction to see that volatility is wreaking havoc in the dairy market. the auction’s 5.9% decrease is the eighth decrease in a row and marked the lowest average price since 2009. fact. the continuing fall in prices can no longer be dismissed as a blip. all the indications point to a dairy sector in crisis. i have repeatedly said that the commission has failed to recognise the scale of the problem, despite assurances that were given in 2009. commissioner hogan may finally be starting to grasp it. in a recent interview on the bbc, he said he hoped the second half of 2015 would produce some evidence that we are coming out of this crisis. so i hope he will address that tonight and admit that there is a crisis in the industry. i hope that this is a long overdue recognition of what dairy farmers have been saying for some time. is the commissioner prepared to clarify his remarks and acknowledge that the sector is in crisis? in any case, rabobank’s most recent report has made the commissioner’s prediction look very optimistic, forecasting a recovery in the first half of 2016 at the earliest. commissioner, dairy farmers cannot wait that long. dairy farmers cannot wait until next year to see things turn. the commission must act now. one measure that could make a real difference to dairy farmers in the short term would be a review of the current market intervention threshold. my report calls for a realistic safety net that accurately reflects production costs and market prices. in my own constituency, processers are paying an average base price of 20 pence per litre, with the average cost of production in northern ireland around 26.5 pence per litre. it does not match up. with the intervention rate so low, prices have fallen below the cost of production, and that is not unique to my area alone. we need to put a flow in the market to ensure no further decline arises. another short-term major sector is the russian ban. mr putin has now extended that embargo for another year in response to the latest round of eu sanctions. the onus is on the commission to stand behind dairy farmers who continue to suffer the consequences of political decisions beyond their control. the russian ban has emphasised the pitfalls in relying too heavily on one trading partner. diversifying export markets is crucially important to the countries like my own, and we need to ensure that we diversify the markets and expand the markets that are already there. the commission has made good progress in sourcing new outlets for our own quality european produce, but there is always scope to improve that. we also cannot ignore the longer-term challenges in the dairy sector. we need to look at imbalances in the supply chain between producer, processor and retailer, as well as own—brand labelling and the use of liquid milk as a loss leader by large supermarkets. we need to look at the possibilities of futures-market and fixed-term contracts, as more predictability would allow producers more flexibility. while these are major issues, i believe the single greatest challenge facing the dairy sector is volatility. unfortunately, it is here to stay.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the end of milk quotas heralds a new era for the dairy industry. it is an era of great opportunity, but it will not be without its problems. our rapporteur is right that the best way to help the industry is to create an environment in which the industry is best able to help itself. immediately, we have to deal with the consequences of the russian trade ban but, as is so often the case, this coincides with other factors, such as a very steep downturn in the global dairy market. market volatility will remain a constant threat but, by encouraging and empowering farmers to cooperate, we can help them access opportunities. by strengthening the role of the european milk market observatory, we can help the industry be better informed. by ensuring transparency in the food chain, we can help farmers to get a fair return from the market. finally, we must be there to help the industry ride out the storm from the unpredictable and the unavoidable. threats such as trade embargoes, volatility, extreme climate and the ever-present risk of disease will always be there. if we want to build a sustainable and competitive sector, we must be there to support them in times of difficulty.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, jim nicholson’s report gives a good overview of the present situation, as one might expect. what is absent is a clear strategy for the industry to ride out the current market pressures. action is called for on symptoms without always a clear understanding of causes. the report highlights that the cap has failed in its intended social outcome to keep farmers viable regardless of their size. however, this is not a reason to start market interventions with consequent trade distortions. calls for a cost-of-production formula assume that there is a single magical figure. in reality, cost of land to rent or for mortgage, repayment on loans for farm buildings and equipment, proportion of unpaid family labour, access to cheap by-products for feed, the impact of nitrate-vulnerable zones (nvzs) and other regulations make a single cost-of-production figure quite impossible. and of course, some producers concentrate on low-cost milk but have to accept lower prices, and some vice versa. if we want to keep farmers on the land for purely social reasons, then pillar 2 is more appropriate. current market pressures are affecting large farmers just as much as smaller colleagues, but the rush to expand, post-quota, is not always based on objective business planning. despite these low prices, agricultural lenders tell me that they have plenty of requests from clients to fund dairy expansion. i would urge dairy farmers to look at the pig, poultry and egg sectors, because that is their future. in other words, a tightly-knit supply chain, intense communication from start to finish, and a willingness to adapt to consumer preferences, labelling of country of origin and persuading retailers to commit ...(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i welcome this review of the milk package and offer my thanks to jim nicholson for his work on it. however, the immediate crisis facing the dairy industry in northern ireland is one of continuously low farm gate prices. in april 2014, dairy farmers in my constituency were receiving 28p per litre. in may 2015, they were receiving 21p per litre – a 23% fall in prices. the eu average has fallen by around 19% in the same time. commissioner, you must confront the short-term reality facing the dairy industry. farmers are constantly producing milk below the cost of production. if you do not take steps, the long-term outlook will include far fewer farmers and reduced production capacity. yes, commissioner, it is true that intervention has been opened, but i am disappointed to hear your negative view of reviewing intervention prices – prices that were set years ago with no relation to current... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, there is a sense of déjà vu in this debate. grizzled old lags like myself and, perhaps, mr nicholson remember the debates with mrs fischer boel as commissioner a number of years ago. colleagues, there is a structural problem in the european milk market, and as long as our farmers remain price takers, the sector will lurch from crisis to crisis. commissioner hogan, i very much appreciated your robust defence of the range of tools available to the member states to intervene in their own markets and rebalance them in favour of primary producers, and i was very much struck by your phrase that the milk package has yet to achieve its potential. i absolutely do agree with you, so perhaps a bit of impetus from the commission in naming and shaming those states that have not taken advantage of compulsory contracts, local processing, producer organisations, local labelling, school milk schemes, would help us have some clarity domestically on the fact that the solution to our milk crisis is very often closer to home. could i suggest that if you are looking to be naming and shaming, then you start with the united kingdom, because there are plenty of scottish farmers who are suffering, as we do not have the tools to rebalance the market in scotland ourselves, but london does.
madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report, which i think was particularly well researched, particularly in the beginning. times are tough for dairy farmers. they face extra costs, notably with regard to access to feed, and the decisions they make are often long term as it is not easy to turn on and off production. many farmers in my region are struggling with tb as well. it is a tough industry to work in and they face volatile times. but quotas and supply management are not the answer. we cannot hold back the whole of the eu just because of a few small farms in the mountains or in islands. however, we do need to make sure that farmers remain on the land in all parts of the eu. i think this is down to the member states. they have the tools in the cap. in pillar 1 they have coupled payments, lfa payments and redistributive payments, and they also have rural development programmes. i think the key is rural development programmes for the future, and that the commission should be more proactive in helping member states design such schemes and, if necessary, change the rural development rules.
member of the commission.– madam president, i want to again thank mr nicholson as rapporteur of this report and to thank all the contributors to this debate. i want to acknowledge that there are challenges arising from changes in policy, but also that in the market place there is considerable volatility, and that has been acknowledged by me and indeed other speakers in this debate. so we are as one in terms of acknowledging that there are challenges in that area at the moment. but there are many tools that i have outlined in my contribution earlier, that have been used to cushion incomes for dairy producers. and one of the ones i mentioned was the voluntary coupled support, where eur 820 million has been spent, and is being spent over the next few years, in helping dairy producers in 19 member states. i will give you some examples in terms of how it is impacting farmers in some member states: this turns into eur 74 a cow in the mountainous areas of france that mr andrieu mentioned, up to eur 530 a cow in finland, eur 300 a cow in hungary, eur 114 a cow in mountainous areas in spain, eur 250 per cow in romania, eur 65 a cow in croatia and eur 145 a cow in the azores under the posei scheme, in addition to whatever the regional government wishes to give under the rural development programme. i give those as examples of where policies are being put in place to cushion the incomes of dairy producers, which has often been ignored: the contribution and the choices that you as legislators have given to member states and regional governments in order to do that. market intervention thresholds always come up but, as i mentioned in my contribution, the product that goes into intervention has to be put on the market at some place in the future. it is interesting at the moment that skimmed-milk powder is not going into intervention, and it would be interesting to analyse the reasons why. i am very conscious of the russian ban and its impact on agricultural exports from dairy, and i am looking into how we can actually assist producers and, in taking account of some of the measures that have been made already, how we can roll those over in the future. i hope to be in a position to come back to those particular measures for farmers and for people in sectors other than dairy in the future. new markets are very important. in fact, butter products have achieved a buoyancy in 2015: up 8% in the first quarter, while skimmed milk powder has gone up 17%. other products, like cheese, have gone down. so there are certainly some measures where the glass is half full. there is certainly a need for more promotion, and the budget has been increased in order to find third-country markets. in terms of volatility, there is a structural issue (i think mr smith is quite correct about that) in some member states, particularly in the united kingdom. i think that we need to look at ways in which we can assist in the establishment of better contractual relations between farmers and the industry and how some coops – in fact in some member states – are establishing a lock-in price over a period of time at a very reasonable price. there are structural problems, i agree. at the european investment bank, in spite of what my friend mr flanagan said, it is not a compulsory option to take out a loan, but there are opportunities for people to get access to finance whether they are young farmers or whether they are people who want to expand. the food chain continues to be a source of concern, and we are watching carefully what is happening in the united kingdom and spain in order to give us some experience, and we look forward to the report of ms mcguinness later this year, which will give us more information and explanation about what action we can take in order to improve the situation for the producer here. super-levy instalments are the only policy vehicle at my disposal, because it was agreed by legislators back in 2003, confirmed in 2008 and again in 2013, that we were going to have a super levy. farmers produced more milk in 2014 knowing that they were going to have to pay a super levy. the council of agricultural ministers could not reach an agreement on a soft landing in relation to the super levy payments, so i did what i could, which was to apply a three-yearly interest-free instalment arrangement for the payment of that money. i will do what i can to maintain as much of that money as possible in the agricultural sphere. these are important issues that have been raised here this evening. i can certainly say, in the context of the russian ban, new markets and volatility of the food chain, that we are making considerable efforts to implement measures that will meet the concerns you have expressed. there are direct support provisions which have not been mentioned too loudly here tonight, but i am bringing to your attention the fact that a considerable amount of expenditure – eur 820 million – is cushioning farmers, even though the price of the product is reducing. i again want to thank the speakers – the rapporteur in particular – and the shadow rapporteurs for their input, and it has produced sufficient information for me to be able to take cogniscence of measures that can perhaps be taken in future on many of the areas that have been mentioned in the report.
rapporteur.– madam president, can i first of all take the opportunity to thank everyone who participated in the debate. i think what it has proved here tonight is that there are many problems facing the dairy sector throughout the european union. they may differ in different regions, and there may be different problems, but certainly the problems are there. there is not much doubt about that. i would also like to thank the parliament services for ensuring that we had a full debate on this report tonight. that has proven to be very worthwhile as well. i am totally in agreement with many of the things that were said. the report covered wide issues, and none more than the needs of people in mountainous areas and peripheral areas. i tried to address that, and it is not an easy problem. it is a very serious problem, and it is more difficult for those who actually live in those areas. i have to be honest, commissioner: i think that the milk market observatory is not fit for purpose as it stands. you are going to have to do more, and you are going to have to do it more quickly. i would hope that, by autumn, you will come to the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) with proposals as to what you are going to do there. now is not a time to be following in europe – we should be leading in europe. i also believe that the money collected in the super levy should be kept within the industry and should not be taken by any other parts of the industry or given to any other parts of the commission. everybody speaks about volatility, but nobody has really got the right idea about how we actually deal with it or how we handle it. it is a very difficult subject. i would like to echo what mairead mcguinness said: do not leave it too late. mariann fischer boel promised us in the agri committee, when she was in your position, that never ever again would dairy farmers have to wait so long for support. do not leave it too late. commissioner, i fear your honeymoon period is coming to an end. i noticed in my local agricultural press at the weekend that my local minister said that you and your staff were living in ivory towers in brussels. i would not say that about you, because i know you are a much cleverer man. you will take on board the many things that have been said about the commission here tonight. however, we do need the commission to take action, to take these views on board, and to do something in the name of the dairy farmers who are suffering hardship at this present moment in time.
madam president, our global climate talks in paris this december are a critical opportunity which we should not miss. a strong, comprehensive and globally-binding deal will provide a clear signal to citizens and governments worldwide that we are committed to the massive transition needed to tackle climate change. but for any agreement made in paris to be truly meaningful for working people, here and abroad, the concepts of change management and a just transition must be included in the global deal. it is only by creating decent jobs in up-and-coming industries, inspiring people to innovate through their participation at work and ensuring that social security systems guarantee protection in times of change, that we will win public trust and support for the transition. we urgently need to tackle dangerous climate change. this opportunity should not be lost. it must be grasped.
madam president, lately we have seen the president of the commission trying to bargain as to how many migrants he can ship out of italy and across the borders into member states. the bargaining has been masking the fact that child migrants are already being shipped across borders in their thousands. an investigation by cnn has shown that thousands of migrant children that arrive in italy are disappearing into the drugs trade and sex trafficking. free movement in the schengen area makes this easy. a child can be taken by a trafficker in the infamous termini station in rome and put into a car, and there will be no responsible official to stop the trafficker and save this small victim anywhere between rome and stockholm. a europe without frontiers means child sex trafficking without checks of any kind.
madam president, across the eu there has been a growing monopolisation of arable land by large corporate agricultural enterprises – a process referred to as land grabbing. it is edging out small family-run farms and pushing the young out of farming. in the past eight years, around three million farms, or 20% of the total, have been lost in the eu. the entry into the market of these large agri-businesses, particularly in eastern member states, is causing concern. fewer and fewer workers are employed, while farming based on monocultures, flex crops and a greater reliance on chemicals and antibiotics has worrying implications for our biodiversity, ecosystems and the richness and variety of eu food cultures. the reasons for land grabbing are complex. however, if left unchallenged, this manifestation of unregulated capitalism will see the landscape of europe change forever, to the benefit of a few, with the price paid by the many.
madam president, when i read the title of the debate, ‘external impact of eu trade and investment policy’, i first expected that we would be talking about the negative impact the eu can have across the world, where our trade policies can impact on the poorest nations. while we help with one hand, we stamp down with our foot at the same time. then i read through the report and saw that it is all about public-private partnerships. the danger is that, as the experience in the uk shows, they often cannot work, as we have seen in the british nhs. we can see them combine the worst of both worlds, where we get all the inefficiency of the public sector combined with the narrow profit focus of the private sector. we need to remember that there are dangers with this approach and that we need to be relatively cautious. nevertheless, i would commend the rapporteur specifically on the point that he recognises that these are decisions which must be taken sovereignly by the member states themselves.
madam president, i will not dwell on the common agricultural policy in general, beyond the simple point that, as a ukip mep, naturally i believe these matters could be dealt with better by the member states themselves. i will, however, mention three points specifically from the report. firstly, i commend the rapporteur for saying that simpler is best. the simpler a system is, the easier it is for farmers. secondly, i agree with the rapporteur that there is a crisis in farming. i have seen this personally over the last couple of weeks, speaking to young people and seeing the attitudes towards farming and the number of people who are not getting involved in farming. it is a massive problem. thirdly, the report mentions children not eating enough fruit and vegetables. i would suggest that governments should be doing more in that respect. there is, though, a danger of too much of a top-down approach. we have seen that where schools start policing what is put in children’s lunchboxes, this can cause hostility and become counterproductive. so, in keeping with the theme of this debate, i would suggest that the approach we need is carrot, not stick.
madam president, the rapporteur mentions in the report the individual choice to travel by car. i would just mention that for a lot of people it is more a necessity than a choice. i could mention myself. to travel from my flat to my office is a 35— or 40-minute drive, but it would take four or five hours on public transport, so by the time i got there it would almost be time to come home again. for many people that is an issue, and we should focus as well on trying to make cars more efficient, with a carrot – and not a stick – approach. in terms of cross-border cooperation, this is great for countries which share a land border. it is great for countries where people are moving from one country to the other on a day-to-day basis. it will help them a lot, but i would just ask you to remember that the uk is pretty much an island, and so for the uk the cost of administering such a scheme and the harmonisation costs are very likely to exceed the benefits.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, madam prime minister said that the latvian presidency was a job well done. i cannot believe what i am hearing: this is alice-through-the-looking-glass stuff. i could, as we say in england, gild the lily like all the rest of you, but i am from the north of england and we are quite famous for straight—talking and telling it how it is. so i will. the latvian presidency has been an unmitigated, unrivalled disaster. let us just look at what has happened: vladimir putin continues to lead the european union in a merry dance in ukraine and there seems to be no let-up whatsoever. we have 500 000 migrants in the mediterranean and another 500 000 waiting to come. indeed, eurojust admitted last night that isis are sending over jihadists onto our continent by boat. finally, we have greece, a country which could well leave the euro. this has all happened on your watch, madam prime minister: it is not a very good result, is it? in fact, i would go so far as to say that at least nero fiddled while rome burned, but you have done absolutely nothing while we watched the eu project fall to pieces. finally, as a eurosceptic, i would like to see latvia extend their presidency by another six months, because another half-a-year of this could see the whole eu fall to bits.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development.– mr president, ttip is estimated to be worth gbp 100 billion to the european union. this would provide immense opportunities in my own constituency, and indeed right across europe. but no trade negotiations are without risk. that is why we must have appropriate safeguards. right from the start i have said that agriculture should not be used as a bargaining chip in any negotiations with the united states, and in writing the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development on ttip, my main focus was to put the retention of european food standards at the top of the agenda. i am pleased that the report highlights the importance of geographical indicators (gis). my colleagues from italy and france may have many more gis than i do in my part of the world, but producers of products with gis certainly realise the value these have and recognise the benefits of their protection in any free trade. ttip also has great potential export opportunities for many sectors, and especially for the dairy sector in agriculture, due in no small part to the sheer size of the us marketplace. we must have a fair and balanced ttip that protects vulnerable sectors, protects public service and allows the maximum use of the opportunities of a closer trade relationship with the united states.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i want to firstly join the many members who have already thanked bernd lange for his hard work on this report. there is a view in some quarters, inside and outside this house, that our handling of ttip has not been our finest hour. i beg to differ. i think parliament has fulfilled exactly the role that it should play. the rapporteur has performed a herculean task in bringing together competing and sometimes contradictory views on a wide range of sensitive and emotive issues. in my view, and in the view of my group, if this report is adopted by parliament it will provide an excellent blueprint for a progressive ttip that not only creates jobs but protects public services and the right to regulate, and defends labour and environmental standards. even on the most sensitive issue – isds – we have made progress. i and my group remain opposed to isds, but nevertheless, look how far we have come. firstly, the vast majority of this parliament, and indeed the commission, now accept that the old-style isds is dead and unacceptable. the majority now accept that any investor protection must be transparent, must not limit the right to regulate, and must not undermine health, labour or environmental standards. that is indeed progress on where we were six months ago. in this report we have also made it clear that the sustainable development chapter must be binding and enforceable. we have demanded that the us sign and ratify core ilo conventions on workers’ rights; with this report we are also demanding, very clearly and explicitly, the full exemption of public services from the deal, regardless of how they are financed – and, as the rapporteur has said, that includes healthcare, education and water. we also acknowledge that ttip is an opportunity to help set global standards. that does not mean (again, as others have said) simply accepting all us standards, and the report again makes it clear that gmos, some food standards and chemicals are not up for grabs. where we can agree, we should agree common standards with the united states, and again, as others have said, if we do not, it will be the global marketplace that sets those standards. do we really believe that the human rights standards from latin america, the labour standards from china, the environmental standards from other parts of asia, will be up to our standards? do we really want to be driven down by that part of the world when we could reach an agreement on common standards with the united states that – for all its faults – could drag it up the way, not down the way? my group has been explicit since the outset of the ttip debate that we want a good ttip but that we are ready to reject a bad ttip, and we stand by that position. but this report, if it is accepted by parliament and implemented by the negotiators, would create a europe that helps to create jobs but ensures that european standards on workers’ rights and the environment are at the heart of our economic growth strategy. commissioner, my recommendation to you would be, if parliament adopts this report tomorrow, make sure your chief negotiator keeps it in his top pocket and refers to it every day during the negotiations. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, for me this report is about the potential opportunities that arise from striking a deal with one of our closest allies. this deal can bring us the growth that we so desire, cutting red tape and reducing tariffs, so that our businesses of all sizes can flourish in a truly transatlantic marketplace. in turn, the consumer wins, being able to choose from a wide range of products at a cheaper price, while the taxpayer gains from further competition if procurement is opened up too. as we are all too aware, this is not the only debate taking place this week. we will be discussing the situation in greece, a member state that has fallen on hard times in one of the worst economic downturns we have ever known. but we cannot on the one hand condemn the situation there, scrambling to find a resolution to the problem, and, on the other, strike down ttip. if we are to have any hope of overcoming this crisis, we must be outward-looking. other parts of the world are making progress while europe lags behind. as the trans-pacific partnership nears conclusion with the signing of the trade promotion authority in the us, europe should lead the global trade agenda and not be led by it. this is not just an option for us: we must do this to catch up. this includes leadership on the thorny issue of investment protection. we have taken part in numerous debates over recent months, and i do not recall having heard anyone deny that isds requires change. we must have a dispute settlement mechanism that is transparent and accountable and offers the opportunity to appeal. the compromise agreement that we have on the table takes this into account, and the need for reform is there for investment protection within ttip. but let us be clear: europe is desperate for investment, and with that must come some form of investment protection. i, like my group, remain committed to the promotion of free trade to free and empower people the world over. we need to get further down the road of negotiations with the us to see what it is possible to achieve if the eu has any opportunity to prove that it is truly open for business.
madam president, first of all, trade should be about economic benefits, not political goals, and yet the commission persistently wants to exploit trade agreements in the course of its political agenda. i refer you to commissioner malström’s statement at the confirmation hearings when she said, in prepared remarks, that ‘trade is a powerful foreign policy tool; it must support europe’s wider international goals’. the intention is that member states are to be forced to barter – trade away their sovereignty – in order to support the eu’s vanity foreign policy. the eu should not manipulate the uk’s trade, nor that of any other member state, in order to promote the political pretensions of a wannabe european superstate, not with any trade agreement and not with isds either. now to the detail: first, the british national health service (nhs). the british labour party has spent months – years even – falsely accusing our party of wanting to privatise the nhs. incidentally, in these false accusations, they have been consistently and disgracefully aided and abetted by the bbc. but in the committee on international trade (inta), ukip was the only british political party to table amendments that would have fully and properly protected the nhs. it was the s&d group, of which the labour party is a principal component, that saw to it that no one got to vote on our amendments which protected the nhs. ukip stands up for the nhs, even as the british labour party does not and fails to do so. i have to make a potentially embarrassing personal confession, which is this: on a personal level, i rather like president schulz. however, his exploitation of the rules to delay the vote on the amendments in last month’s plenary was not president schulz’s finest hour, and i very much hope that this does not happen again. but we are getting to vote on the amendments tomorrow, and i urge members to support our efd amendments. these require, very simply, that the commission does not use ttip to establish a global regulatory regime, nor as a device to advance the foreign policy goals of the eu, nor to set up a parallel system that would undermine national courts and national legal systems through the much-mentioned isds. above all, our amendments require the commission to exclude specifically our british national health service from ttip in its entirety.
madam president, i believe that ttip will be damaging to the interests of my constituents in wales, and that is why i take this opportunity to voice my opposition to it. i am grateful to the many thousands of constituents who have contacted me with their concerns that ttip threatens our public services and health care, our jobs, environmental and food standards, small businesses and – an issue which is vital for wales – minority languages and cultures. i am opposed to ists, or any similar process under another name, which gives foreign investors rights to take legal action against elected governments, rights which are not granted to anyone else. ttip is about power and profit; it is not about people. we need a real and open debate about what kind of trade deal we want, a trade deal that will benefit – not threaten – our democracy, standards and values.
madam president, my constituents in the uk have been in touch with me in massive numbers to voice their opposition to ttip. this parliament needs to understand the strength of opposition to this deal in the uk. for far too long, the european parliament and the european union have pushed through proposals that people simply do not want. even the european constitution – the lisbon treaty, which was rejected by voters when they were consulted – was pushed through in the same anti—democratic way. i did not come to the european parliament expecting to side with the left in this chamber, but i do so on ttip for good reasons. in my country, the privatisation of health care by different governments has been a disaster. in the enf group, we say no to ttip in the interest of big brussels and big business. we say no to a deal that is not in the best interest of patients, voters or individual member states. i am not here to represent the private interests who want to force through a ttip which suits them. i am here to represent all those in the eu and britain who say no to trade deals which are negotiated in secrecy by the european union, and yes to a europe of free and sovereign nations.
madam president, we are the democratic arm of the eu institutions. our job is to stand up for citizens and to tell you what they want, and i can tell you very clearly: they do not want ttip. well over 2 million have already petitioned the commission to stop negotiating in their name. the only reason there are not more of them is that many people still do not know what ttip is. ttip is a threat to our public services and our democratic rights. it threatens to undermine the standards we fought for in areas such as air quality, water quality, safe food and animal welfare. it threatens the livelihoods of farmers in the south—west of the uk and across europe. more trade is not the solution to our problems. it is a way to allow corporations to take control of more of our economy, and that is why they are driving this agenda. as a continent we are currently facing massive crises in greece, with migrants in the mediterranean, with conflict in the middle east and ukraine and with climate change. these are the problems we should be focusing on rather than wasting money on negotiations for a treaty that only serves corporations.
madam president, these negotiations could present a unique opportunity to re-regulate globalisation and promote the high standards on which the european union prides itself, and they could offer a means of creating jobs and growth in regions like my own where we urgently need them. trade is a tool: it is neither good nor bad. it all depends on the level of the rules set out in trade agreements, and labour meps have set out exactly what we would like to see in a future ttip deal: a full exclusion of public services, regardless of how they are provided, organised or financed; protection of our standards and our democracies; and no isds or special systems for foreign investors. we delivered the first two in the trade committee, but we did not deliver the third, and that is why labour meps will reject isds unambiguously tomorrow. this resolution’s only purpose is to steer the commission. a fudge on isds will not do this; it will not deliver a ttip that we will be able to support in the future.
member of the commission.– madam president, sometimes the european union – you and the commission – are accused of debating things that are not really of relevance to the citizens. i think this debate has proven that this has not been the case today. we are debating something that many people around the european union and elsewhere actually do care about and follow very closely. it is clear that there are many concerns. i also meet citizens who have concerns and who share them with me. but i also want to remind you that overall a majority of european citizens support those negotiations. they might not be as vocal as those who are against, but their voice is also important. that is also democracy. let me answer some of the questions. there was a question from the committee on development (deve) on the impact of ttip on developing countries. we are doing a study on this in the commission, and it will be published later this autumn. the preliminary results show there is actually very little impact on our neighbours and on developing countries, but we can come back to that once it is published. regarding gmos, our legislation will not change. what is prohibited in europe today will remain prohibited; we will not change our laws on consumer protection; reach standards will not be lowered, and we will stick very strongly to our precautionary principle. on isds, this is a chance we have together to reform an old system. that system dates from the 1950s. you represent – all of you but one – countries who have many of these bilateral agreements already. you might like them, you might not like them, but they exist and we have to face that. so this is an opportunity to really get rid of an old—fashioned system to create something new – something that clearly spells out that states have the right to regulate in order to protect their citizens. this can never be called into question. that brings procedures which are transparent and open, with court-like systems, judges and a system of appeal, leading to an international court – starting with ttip but moving towards an international court. this is something that is being discussed all over the world. we have the highest number of these – more than 3 000 agreements. so let us take the chance – the world is watching us – to reform this system and create something really new. we can jointly show leadership here. i also want to address the audiovisual issue. the committee on culture and education (cult) raised this. liberalisation of the audiovisual sector is excluded from the mandate, as you know. book pricing is not up for negotiation, and ttip will not impose any obligation on any member state to provide financial support to culture industries. there is also the question of jobs. of course there are many studies being published in this regard. most of them point in the same direction. this house – you – in september 2014, less than a year ago, published a paper with an in-depth analysis of the expected impact of ttip on eu member states. there was a hearing in the committee on international trade (inta). it underlines that several studies generally confirm the trend that ttip is expected to lead to benefits for the european union as a whole, and the results are largely convergent. there are one or two divergent studies, but they use a different methodology. however, in your study you also say that the model used by the commission in its impact assessment, and by others, is the most appropriate. we are also accused of not listening to concerns. well, transparency has increased, thanks to your concerns and those of many others. we are about to reform the old isds system dramatically. we have made clear statements with the united states on public services. we are highlighting the need for smes, because they will be the big winners on this. we will continue to engage with you and others. let me also remind you that the mandate to negotiate ttip has been given by 28 countries unanimously and endorsed by this house as well. why? because member states are convinced – and i think a majority of you are convinced – that trade agreements are good for europe. 90% of growth in the coming years will come from outside europe. we need to be there. despite seeing light at the end of the tunnel in the economic crisis, we are still not out of it. we need jobs. we need growth. we need investments. there are many ways to do this, but ttip and the other trade agreements that we are negotiating are a part of that struggle. member states, and you, are closely involved in those negotiations now and in the months to come. when i and my team negotiate, we will never – nor will the member states and nor will you – accept a ttip that will lower protection for people or for the environment. nobody will accept a ttip that will restrict our right to provide new protections in the future. nobody will accept a ttip that gives companies unfair rights through secret tribunals. nobody will accept a ttip that will undermine europe’s proud tradition of providing high-quality public services for our people. instead we want a partnership – efficient, creating opportunities for european workers, consumers and smes – that allows us in europe to be the shaper of globalisation, not a passive observer; a partnership based on close cooperation between this parliament, national parliaments, member states, the commission and lots of stakeholders out there. your resolution is forward—looking, and if it is voted through – as i hope it will be tomorrow – that will help to give a clear platform for ttip. it helps us to negotiate an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced agreement. this is what it is all about. this is what we want to deliver for europe. (applause)
in writing.– the lange report still leaves many of the main problems with ttip unaddressed. both the isds and the so-called compromise are deeply flawed. the report does not do enough to protect public services in the member states. i am supportive of free trade, but this agreement as it stands appears to be a corporatist trade agreement. furthermore, i deplore the manner in which – at every stage – transparency has been a pipedream, and debate even in this chamber has been suppressed.
in writing.– i have received more emails from my constituents on the subject of ttip than on any other in the 11 years that i have been an mep. few people realise that the uk’s trade policy was surrendered to the eu when we joined in 1973. the main concern of my constituents is that the proposed isds mechanism would enable foreign corporations to take our government to court if it failed to comply with a ttip requirement. this would not be in a civil court of law subject to the law of contract, but rather in a secret tribunal if government policy were to infringe ttip. in particular my constituent concerns, which i share, are that areas such as the nhs could be opened up to private international companies; and this could not be altered later even if a democratically elected government chose to change the policy. whether this will or will not be included in the final treaty remains to be seen, but from my point of view i will oppose ttip because uk trade policy should be decided by the uk government and not the european union.
in writing.– tomorrow we finally vote on this report. i have consistently called for major amendment of the report to ensure that our public services, food, health, environmental and labour standards in scotland are protected. i also reject any form of isds and i want a clear exemption for scotland’s nhs. with an overwhelming mandate from the many thousands of constituents i have heard from, i will vote for radical amendments, in line with the position set out by snp members at our recent conference. as an snp mep, i remain pro-democracy, not anti-trade. for scotland, the usa is our largest trading partner outside the eu. therefore, i sincerely hope that the commission and council will listen to the serious concerns surrounding ttip, all of which have been made crystal clear in the recent round of political wrangling in strasbourg and brussels. the language used in president schulz’s so-called compromise on isds is unacceptable, allowing for a new mechanism for dispute resolution that we simply do not need. we already have law courts. this approach exemplifies the report’s failure to categorically exclude scotland’s nhs and public services from ttip negotiations, despite endless assurances from the european commission, and others, to this effect.
in writing.– the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership is more than a traditional trade deal and the current negotiating position that meps have access to is not a text i could support. commerce and democracy are not mutually exclusive, nor should they ever be traded against each other. this opinion must send a clear statement to the commission that this is the case or it serves no purpose. the commission must understand that the fear of lowering standards through regulatory harmonisation expressed by citizens from across europe is not irrational and must be addressed. the proposal to create a separate legal mechanism to protect investors is completely unacceptable. as a lawyer i am deeply worried by this because companies can and will take advantage of any avenues that are open to them. that the scottish government is currently before the european court of justice defending its policies against the challenge of the scotch whisky association shows that investors already have numerous avenues to defend themselves. the snp could support ttip but only if it creates trade without compromising european standards, the scottish nhs or the democratic accountability of the scottish parliament.
madam president, i wonder if, just before we start the vote, i could raise a point of order, or information, or a point of remembrance. today we commemorate the 10th anniversary of the 7/7 terror attacks in london, and i hope this whole chamber will join together with the eight london meps from all political parties in paying tribute to those who lost their lives and their families; the servicemen and women who saved lives and assisted the injured; and the people who next day went back to work in defiance of those who sought to divide us through acts of terror. today, i hope this chamber will agree that we stand here united and resolute in defending pluralism, diversity and freedom. we stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of london to show these terrorists who seek to undermine us that we will never allow their fear to win through, and that we will walk together with the people of london. (applause)
madam president, as mr kamall said, 10 years ago we had the 7/7 attacks in london. fifty-two people were murdered and there were over 700 casualties. they were not all uk citizens; there were also other citizens of europe and beyond. it is really important in these troubled times to take a moment to remember all those affected by this and other atrocities, and to reflect on the common values that will continue to unite us. (applause)
madam president, under rule 162(8), president schulz cancelled the blue cards in the last debate on ttip. the only justification for that in the rules of procedure is disruption of a debate, and there was no threat of that. it seems absolutely clear to me that the powers that be are determined we will not have a proper debate on ttip. there will be no discussion. we are now given just part of the morning for a series of pre-prepared, sterile statements. you will not listen to the greek people, you will not listen to the hundreds of thousands of british people who have written to us on this subject, and you will not listen to the european people, so please do not misuse the rules of procedure in this way again to stifle debate. (applause)
madam president, i had hoped to speak at the beginning of the session, but mr kamall pre-empted what i was going to speak about. let me return to that subject, because i am speaking under precedence. on many occasions in this parliament over the years, we have observed a minute’s silence on solemn occasions regarding human tragedies. today is indeed the tenth anniversary of the 7/7 bombings, when 52 people were murdered, and over 700 people were injured or maimed for life. i would respectfully ask that chamber rises for a one-minute silence to observe that anniversary.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. i do not agree with the concept of secret ballots in this place, because my constituents have a democratic right to know how i voted. i therefore wish to clarify that i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. i do not agree with the concept of secret ballots in this place, because my constituents have a democratic right to know how i voted. i therefore wish to clarify that i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ mrs bettina michelle jakobsen was nominated as an eca member by the danish government following the death of the previous danish eca member. there is general consensus on her excellent qualifications for the post. she was assistant auditor general at the danish national audit office and auditor at the international board of auditors for nato at the nato headquarters. moreover, mrs jakobsen was designated by the auditor general as chair of the intosai professional standards committee (psc) and appointed by the european investment bank (eib) as a member of the audit committee of the european investment fund (eif) in luxembourg.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the šoltes report and ms jakobsen’s extensive experience in public sector auditing makes her a very suitable candidate for appointment to the court of auditors. i welcome the fact that her appointment will contribute to achieving a gender balance amongst eca members, which has not yet been reached.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my european labour party colleagues voted in favour of this report which nominated bettina michelle jakobsen to the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ ms jakobsen’s extensive experience in public sector auditing makes her a very suitable candidate for appointment to the court of auditors. i am pleased that this will contribute to gender balance amongst eca members, which has not yet been reached.
in writing. ‒ ms jakobsen’s extensive experience in public sector auditing makes her a very suitable candidate for appointment to the court of auditors. i am pleased that this will contribute to gender balance amongst eca members, which has not yet been reached.
in writing. ‒ ms jakobsen’s extensive experience in public sector auditing makes her a very suitable candidate for appointment to the court of auditors. i am pleased that this will contribute to gender balance amongst eca members, which has not yet been reached.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the rapporteur of the report was a member of my parliamentary group, the gue/ngl. the report was a ‘codification’ report – a simple procedural move to roll new existing rules that are currently in the form of a council regulation and amendments into legislation. politically the regulation relates to the commission having control over the eu’s interaction with the world trade organisation. however, even if i may oppose any aspect of the content of the regulation, it is already in place. there was nothing in this report that included any of the content of the regulation. it was purely technical – a new act to supersede existing rules, regulations and amendments without any change to the content.
in writing. ‒ as i oppose the procedures which are to be codified under this resolution, it was consistent for me to vote against the resolution itself.
in writing. ‒ as i oppose the procedures which are to be codified under this resolution, it was consistent for me to vote against the resolution itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the maštálka report, given it simply concerns a codification to take into account changes in rules (already accepted by the eu) by the wto in international trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report alongside my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group. this report is a simple codification to recognise account changes in rules by the wto that have already been accepted by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal which is a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is part of a group of codification files, and is simply a codification to take into account changes in rules (already accepted by the eu) by the wto in international trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this group of codification files, as it is simply a codification to take into account changes in rules (already accepted by the eu) by the wto in international trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report codifying international trade rules as these clarify the eu’s rights under international trade rules.
in writing. ‒ once again, this is a matter which should be within the remit of individual sovereign nations, not the european union.
in writing. ‒ once again, this is a matter which should be within the remit of individual sovereign nations, not the european union.
in writing. ‒ at the heart of this report is an attack on allegedly unfair pricing in shipbuilding, which i view as an attack on the free market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the maštálka report, given that it simply concerns a codification to take into account changes in the pricing of vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report alongside my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group. this report is a simple codification to take into account changes in the pricing of vessels.
in writing. ‒ i was previously against the original law, and this amendment further attacks the free market by regulating shipbuilding pricing, and it should not be the role of the european union to regulate markets or interfere. therefore i voted against this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal which is a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is another codification file, and is simply a codification to take into account changes in the pricing of vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this codification, as it is simply a codification to take into account changes in the pricing of vessels.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it codifies the protection against injurious pricing of vessels.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as there are conflicting interests here: this vote will set a precedent for non-eu flagged vessels fishing in eu waters.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as there are conflicting interests here: this vote will set a precedent for non-eu flagged vessels fishing in eu waters.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is unlike typical fisheries partnership agreements and in legal terms is not an international fisheries agreement but instead, a council declaration allowing the transfer of fishing rights to venezuelan vessels in the waters of french guiana – a french overseas department. this agreement has no budgetary or funding implications.
in writing. ‒ i, like my colleagues in the labour party, voted in favour of this report. this report grants fishing opportunities for fishing vessels from the bolivarian republic of venezuela off the coast of french guiana, and outlines the conditions of such.
in writing. ‒ this report is a reminder that the eu’s interests in fisheries extend well beyond the waters of the european continent. it is essential that fishing in all waters belonging to eu member states is conducted with legal certainty and i therefore voted in favour of mr ferreira’s report.
in writing. ‒ this will create a precedent for eu boats to fish in non-eu waters, and therefore i must abstain, given our campaign to leave the european union.
in writing. ‒ the fish processing industry based in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation of living natural resources in its exclusive economic zone (eez) by venezuelan vessels. given the economic and social importance of this activity in the region, fishing has been authorised for these vessels for decades, with the proviso that part of the catch is landed in local ports. the landing and processing of fishery products therefore represent an important source of income and jobs for french guiana. however, as there is no international agreement between the eu and venezuela on fisheries this has been happening outside eu law. this welcome proposal regularises the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which supports the request to approve the declaration addressed to the bolivarian republic of venezuela on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of the french guiana on behalf of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to approve the declaration addressed to the bolivarian republic of venezuela on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of the french guiana on behalf of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this declaration as it grants the bolivarian republic of venezuela fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of the french guiana on behalf of the european union.
in writing. ‒ a budget surplus should be returned to the member states rather than be spent by the european union.
in writing. ‒ british conservatives voted against draft amending budget no.3/2015 (dab3) relating to surplus for budgetary year 2014. while we fully support and welcome the return of surpluses to member states through reduced contributions, we cannot support efforts by this house to undermine the financial regulation and create political links between this annual accounting exercise and the commission’s demand for additional funding from member states in order to finance dab4/2015 (mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund). the conservatives have always been clear that we want to see real budget discipline. therefore we believe that the commission should always try to finance the mobilisation of the solidarity fund by re-deployment. instead we see here no effort by the commission to find savings elsewhere in the eu budget. the rapporteur in today’s report establishes a link with dab4/2015, pointing out that dab3/2015 will reduce the share of gni contributions from member states and will therefore more than compensate their contribution to the financing of dab4/2015. while conservatives are in favour of adopting dab3/2015, we will not support any efforts seeking to coerce member states into accepting unconditionally the commission’s demands for new money. for this reason, my colleagues and i voted against.
in writing. ‒ a budget surplus should be returned to the member states rather than be spent by the european union.
in writing. ‒ just under half of this surplus is made up of fines and late payments from national governments, and thus directly from the pockets of taxpayers. it will be transferred to projects such as the european solidarity fund, which provide finance for many initiatives which i as a ukip mep do not support and do not wish british taxpayers’ money to be spent on.
in writing. ‒ while the report recommends that parliament adopts dab3/2015 which the ecr supports, it has also established a political link with dab4/2015 (mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund). the report claims that by linking the adoption of dab3 with dab4/2015 council will be unable to shift the payment requests related to the eusf into the 2016 budget negotiations. it points out that dab 3/2015 will reduce the share of gni contributions from member states and will therefore more than compensate their contribution to the financing of dab 4/2015. the ecr is in favour of adopting dab 3/2015 un-amended and will not accept any political linkage between dabs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gardiazabal report given the budgeting of the surplus will diminish the global contribution of the member states to the financing of the 2015 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ a huge chunk of this ‘surplus’ comes from the fines and late payments of nation states – essentially the british taxpayer. it will be given to projects like the european solidarity fund which will include our money being spent on projects that ukip supporters, like me, will fundamentally disagree with.
in writing. ‒ this vote calls for money to be taken from members states through fines and other sanctions to support things such as the european solidarity fund. i do not believe the european union should have the ability to fine sovereign states and therefore i have voted against this amendment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal and would like to point out that the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the share of the gni contributions from member states to the union budget by eur 1 435 million and will therefore more than compensate for their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, dab3 is intended to budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2014. as provided for in the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union. the implementation of the budget year 2014 shows a surplus of eur 1 434 557 707.74 (excluding contributions from european free trade association (efta) and european economic area (eea)), which is therefore entered as revenue in the 2015 budget. the budgeting of the surplus will diminish accordingly the global contribution of the member states to the financing of the 2015 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the surplus will help reduce member state contributions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget no 3 as it budgets the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget year 2014, as provided for in the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the eu, and will lead to reduced member state contributions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, because i do not believe in the principle of this fund.
in writing. ‒ the british conservatives voted against this proposal for draft amending budget no 4 (dab4), which seeks an additional eur 66 million beyond the agreed budget for 2015. while we support the principle and objectives of the eu solidarity fund, the conservatives have been consistently clear that we want to see real budgetary restraint in the eu in order to avoid unaffordably high costs for member states. our view is that the commission must always look first to reallocate funds from within existing agreed budgets, such as the eu solidarity fund, to meet emerging in-year payments, rather than coming straight to the member states to request additional money. as the commission has not made any effort to do this, my colleagues and i voted against this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, because i do not believe in the principle of this fund.
in writing. ‒ the ecr view is that the commission must always look first to reallocate funds from within existing agreed budgets to meet emerging in-year payments, rather than coming to member states to request additional money. for this principled reason the ecr will vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity funds. in this area, the eu did the right thing and helped member states when natural disasters occurred. ensuring that regions which were completely devastated by floods are able to rebuild is an objective that the ecr and i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gardiazabal report to mobilize the solidarity fund to assist italy, romania and bulgaria recover from major floods. my constituency of the west midlands is all too familiar with such natural disasters and knows well the importance of eu funding in ensuring a quick recovery. although it is not ideal that the mobilisation of the funds in this instance increases the annual budget for 2015 into the margins, i can give my support given the mff ceiling is not surpassed.
in writing. ‒ i along with my fellow labour meps voted in favour of this report on the draft amending budget, which budgets for funds needed to finance a request to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in response to flooding in romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ while i understand that this is for aid which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, floods in bulgaria in july/august 2014, and floods in italy in october/november 2014 had devastating consequences for the individuals and regions affected. with this release of financial assistance through the eusf to the countries affected by these natural disasters we are showing solidarity with the population in the region hit by these disasters.
in writing. ‒ while i understand that this is for aid which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support the granting of solidarity aid in cases of major natural disasters or extraordinary regional disaster. the funding was part of the mff agreement and does not go above the mff ceiling. furthermore, these margins exist for unforeseen disasters such as the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, because i do not believe in the principle of this fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, because i do not believe in the principle of this fund.
in writing. ‒ i and fellow socialist and democrat meps voted in favour of this report. it was a request to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in light severe flooding in romania, bulgaria and italy. the eu solidarity fund provides financial assistance to eligible states affected by major natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour have supported similar dabs and solidarity fund applications in the past. the mobilisation of eusf relates to two floods in romania, one in bulgaria and one in italy.
in writing. ‒ while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be in the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for floods in romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i support the granting of solidarity aid in cases of major natural disasters or extraordinary regional disaster. the funding was part of the mff agreement and does not go above the mff ceiling. furthermore, these margins exist for unforeseen disasters such as the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy.
madam president, yet again i find myself in this chamber speaking against more daft motions, legislations and reports. this report calls for the whole of the eu to have the same integrated public transport ticketing system. the people of the united kingdom do not want any more of their information to be stored by the commission in an eu superstate database. the people of the united kingdom do not want to have to change something that is not broken. our ticketing system on public transport is fine as it is. if we want to change it, it is up to our own country, not the eu. the public sector back home in the uk is facing huge cuts and has been for a while. we cannot afford to rip up and change all of our systems just to suit a few in this place. it is entirely unfeasible for the eu jobsworths to believe that one of my elderly residents in a rural village of shropshire should have to change the way she uses the bus just to get to the shops. if it is not broken, do not fix it. that is why i voted against.
madam president, as a london mep and a british mep, let me also add my thoughts in relation to the terrible tragedy that happened 10 years ago, and also on how the communities in london pulled together, including the transport workers. i wanted in particular to say, in relation to ticketing, how much i welcome the report on ticketing and its recommendations. i was pleased to vote for it and, in particular, the fact that we underlined the importance of internet access at stations and interchanges and on the move, and how important that is for the citizens of europe to be able to travel around. this is a very good example of how we work together to create a genuine single market for the benefit of everyone.
in writing. ‒ multimodal integrated ticketing will be of minimal benefit to the uk for geographical reasons. however, we will share the cost of implementation. it is clearly therefore not in the interests of my constituents, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ multimodal integrated ticketing will be of minimal benefit to the uk for geographical reasons. however, we will share the cost of implementation. it is clearly therefore not in the interests of my constituents, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to identify ways of removing barriers to the purchasing of single multi-modal tickets for transport, both domestically and across borders. the report highlights many of the difficulties facing the provision of such services across the eu. nonetheless, a number of concerns meant we were unable to vote in favour in tran. the report calls for the equipping of all forms of local transport with intelligent systems relaying real-time information by 2020. this would have severe cost implications, particularly for small and rural bus operators, and serve as a barrier to new entrants onto the uk bus market. moreover, the report calls for a set of multi-modal eu passenger rights. we fear this would have the unintended consequence of small local and regional bus/rail operators being held liable for large sums of compensation in case of missed medium or long-haul connections.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in this vote, although i broadly support the focus on removing barriers for cross border transport. i do not support the call for equipping all forms of local transport with real-time relaying equipment. this would be far too costly for rural transport providers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the koch report given it outlines a number of important recommendations for the eu to improve the passenger experience and make booking journeys easier. passengers deserve a full range of options when it comes to deciding how they will get from a to b, but these choices need to be backed up by easy-to-use ticketing systems, with clear prices and timetables. it is particularly important to make sure that passengers with reduced mobility are able to make travel bookings without unnecessary inconvenience, for instance by reserving wheelchair spaces or station assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in for this report along with my labour party colleagues in the european parliament. people using public transport across europe deserve a full range of options when it comes to getting from a to b, but this cannot happen without an easy-to-use ticketing system, with clear prices and timetables. this report highlights the positive steps that the eu can take to improve passenger experience and make booking journeys easier. this is of particular importance for those passengers with reduced mobility or other disabilities, so that people with such disabilities are able to make travel bookings and indeed travel, without unnecessary inconvenience.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on delivering multimodal integrated ticketing in europe because we need to put passengers first. passengers deserve a full range of travel options which are underpinned by user-friendly ticketing systems with clear prices and timetables. this report identifies a number of measures which can be taken by the eu to improve the passenger experience in europe. in particular, it highlights the need to ensure that the needs of disabled passengers and passengers with reduced mobility are incorporated into ticketing systems, for example through reservation of wheelchair spaces and station assistance. this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction for passengers’ rights.
in writing. ‒ this vote promotes an ever closer european union, which is something i am working against. it is also a move towards more multinational personal data-sharing, which raises issues over data confidentiality and protection. therefore i have voted against this motion.
in writing. ‒ the long-term aim is to facilitate the provision eu-wide of comprehensive information about travel by air, rail, sea and road with both publicly owned and private transport operators, and thus to offer travellers seamless, multimodal, cross-border, door-to-door mobility options. on the basis of comprehensive information, customers should be able to identify the most sustainable, fastest or best-value travel option for their specific needs, to book and pay online and to make their journey using a single ticket, irrespective of how many different modes of transport they use on the journey. however, this comprehensive information is not currently available. therefore, before work can begin on integrated ticketing, with tickets valid for all modes of transport on a given journey, provision must be made for equal access to comprehensive information on a non-discriminatory basis. a further consideration is the costly and technically complex nature of integrated ticketing systems and the resultant need to ensure that modes of transport for which such systems are introduced do not become so expensive that customers turn away from them. this is a worry notably in the case of particularly sustainable modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ passengers in europe deserve a full range of options when it comes to deciding how they will get from a to b but these choices need to be backed up by easy-to-use ticketing systems, with clear prices and timetables. this european parliament report highlights the positive steps that the eu can take to improve the passenger experience and make booking journeys easier. it is particularly important to make sure that passengers with reduced mobility are able to make travel bookings without unnecessary inconvenience, for instance by reserving wheelchair spaces or station assistance.
in writing. ‒ passengers in europe deserve a full range of options when it comes to deciding how they will get from a to b but these choices need to be backed up by easy-to-use ticketing systems, with clear prices and timetables. this european parliament report highlights the positive steps that the eu can take to improve the passenger experience and make booking journeys easier. it is particularly important to make sure that passengers with reduced mobility are able to make travel bookings without unnecessary inconvenience, for instance by reserving wheelchair spaces or station assistance.
in writing. ‒ passengers in europe deserve a full range of options when it comes to deciding how they will get from a to b but these choices need to be backed up by easy-to-use ticketing systems, with clear prices and timetables. this european parliament report highlights the positive steps that the eu can take to improve the passenger experience and make booking journeys easier. it is particularly important to make sure that passengers with reduced mobility are able to make travel bookings without unnecessary inconvenience, for instance by reserving wheelchair spaces or station assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as passengers in europe deserve a full range of options when it comes to deciding how they will get from a to b but these choices need to be backed up by easy-to-use ticketing systems, with clear prices and timetables. this european parliament report highlights the positive steps that the eu can take to improve the passenger experience and make booking journeys easier. it is particularly important to make sure that passengers with reduced mobility are able to make travel bookings without unnecessary inconvenience, for instance by reserving wheelchair spaces or station assistance.
in writing. ‒ this vote is on a report from the transport committee on the implementation of ticketing that works across different modes of transport. it highlights the positive steps that the eu can take to improve the passenger experience and make booking journeys easier. it is particularly important to make sure that passengers with reduced mobility are able to make travel bookings without unnecessary inconvenience, for instance by reserving wheelchair spaces or station assistance. the report also supports the establishment of a charter of passenger rights, with clear and transparent rules for passengers taking multimodal journeys (e.g. if a bus journey connecting to a train journey is delayed). labour meps voted for this report because passengers in europe deserve easy-to-use ticketing systems, and more rights in transit.
in writing. ‒ this matter was not subject to a vote; i did not raise an objection because i recognise that six months is insufficient to consider 20 years of taxation across 28 countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this extension and await its findings with interest.
in writing. ‒ i supported the extension of the term of office of the special committee on ‘tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect’ in order that it might complete its work.
in writing. ‒ i am supportive of this committee and await its findings with interest.
in writing. ‒ the juncker plan is an imaginative attempt at financing projects, but it is fundamentally flawed. furthermore, it requires additional investment from the member states and therefore an increase in taxpayers’ money would be required.
in writing. ‒ the juncker plan is an imaginative attempt at financing projects, but it is fundamentally flawed. furthermore, it requires additional investment from the member states and therefore an increase in taxpayers’ money would be required.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s resolution welcomes the agreement reached on efsi but indicates that cef and horizon 2020 are essential programmes for jobs and growths in europe and therefore sends a signal to the other institutions that parliament will seek to remedy these redeployments in the upcoming annual budgetary procedures. the content of dab 1 needs to follow the agreement found with council on the legislative file which was adopted by council on 19 june with a small change in nomenclature only, in line with the overall agreement. the legislative file was adopted by parliament on 24 june. efsi will be established during the summer of 2015 within the european investment bank by means of an agreement between the european commission and the bank (‘efsi agreement’).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gardiazabal rubial report given that draft amending budget no 1 creates the budgetary structure that will make european funds for strategic investments possible. if the uk government is ready to grasp this opportunity, it will create many billions of pounds-worth of investment into the uk economy; investments in infrastructure, smes and green growth. i welcome the agreement that no fresh money will be used, which proves the commission is serious about its commitment to do more with less. i am, however, disappointed that despite improvements which i have been pushing for, some of the funds are still taken from a heading that covers competitiveness for growth and jobs, including horizon 2020, and i encourage the commission to find more money from other headings to reinforce this area which is vital for our economy.
in writing. ‒ labour meps, including myself voted in favour of this report. this report will make efsi possible. if cameron’s government in the uk is ready to take this opportunity it will create many billions-worth of investment in the uk economy, in infrastructure, smes and green growth. the agreement that no fresh money will be used is also encouraging and it demonstrates the commission is ready to do more with less. however it is regrettable that this funding has come from heading 1a. we hope that in the mid-term review more funding will be found to reinforce this productive area.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission’s proposal for a european fund for strategic investments (efsi); reiterate the need to support strategic investments with high economic and societal value added, promote sustainable innovation, skills and local jobs, boost the competitiveness of the eu and contribute to the union’s strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ dab 1 will make efsi possible. if the uk government is ready to grasp this opportunity it will create many billions of pounds worth of investment into the uk economy; investments in infrastructure, smes and green growth. the agreement that no fresh money will be used is also encouraging and demonstrates that the commission is ready to do more with less. it is with regret however that this money has come from heading 1a and we hope that at the mid-term review more funding will be found from other headings to reinforce this productive area.
in writing. ‒ dab 1 will make efsi possible. if the uk government is ready to grasp this opportunity it will create many billions of pounds worth of investment into the uk economy; investments in infrastructure, smes and green growth. the agreement that no fresh money will be used is also encouraging and demonstrates that the commission is ready to do more with less. it is with regret however that this money has come from heading 1a and we hope that at the mid-term review more funding will be found from other headings to reinforce this productive area.
in writing. ‒ dab 1 will make efsi possible. if the uk government is ready to grasp this opportunity it will create many billions of pounds worth of investment into the uk economy; investments in infrastructure, smes and green growth. the agreement that no fresh money will be used is also encouraging and demonstrates that the commission is ready to do more with less. it is with regret however that this money has come from heading 1a and we hope that at the mid-term review more funding will be found from other headings to reinforce this productive area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of dab 1 as it will make efsi possible. if the uk government is ready to grasp this opportunity it will create many billions of pounds worth of investment into the uk economy; investments in infrastructure, smes and green growth. the agreement that no fresh money will be used is also encouraging and demonstrates that the commission is ready to do more with less. it is with regret however that this money has come from heading 1a and the labour meps hope that at the mid-term review more funding will be found from other headings to reinforce this productive area.
in writing. ‒ i believe that migration should be an issue within the preserve of the nation state; consequently, i cannot agree to an increase in eu funding for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ i believe that migration should be an issue within the preserve of the nation state; consequently, i cannot agree to an increase in eu funding for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ the money towards search and rescue missions in the mediterranean and for an eu asylum policy, including extra staff to handle the increase in applications, is something which i believe should not be an eu competence, and this is something the british people have expressed. i believe the problem should be tackled at source, not when people traffickers have made money and people have started their journey to an eu country to seek asylum. the australian approach is one i believe we should be adopting, and britain must be able to control her own borders.
in writing. ‒ the increases on the five budget lines sum up to a total of eur 75.8 million in commitment appropriations and eur 69.6 million for payment appropriations for those budget lines, but they are fully financed through deployment from the galileo programme (heading 1a), leaving the overall level of payment appropriations in the 2015 budget unchanged. council adopted dab 5/2015 unanimously on 19th june.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gardiazabal report because i believe we urgently need to reinforce resources to manage migration and refugee flows, in particular through additional appropriations for the frontex agency, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). too many have lost their lives in the mediterranean, and we have a moral duty to take swift and coordinated action to put a stop to this suffering.
in writing. ‒ labour meps, including myself, voted in favour of this report. this report covers a reinforcement of the union’s resources to manage migration and refugee flows. it is again a good sign that the commission is reallocating resources from existing budgets to meet unforeseen needs such as this. this will allow the eu to deal with the crisis occurring in the southern mediterranean, whilst not spending any more money.
in writing. ‒ this vote related to the complete failure of the migration policy implemented by the european union, and i could not support the various mechanisms contained within this motion.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the willingness of all institutions to increase the budget appropriations related to migration and asylum, given the obvious and urgent need.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 5 for the year 2015 covers a reinforcement of the union’s resources to manage migration and refugee flows, further to the recent developments in the southern mediterranean, in particular through additional appropriations for the frontex agency, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). i voted in favour of the report: the commission should always look first to reallocate funds from within existing agreed budgets to meet emerging in-year pressures, which is highlighted in the approach of dab 5.
in writing. ‒ this proposal calls for more staff to work in the following eu agencies: increase of 23 staff in total to support the migratory issue; 16 additional posts for frontex; 4 posts for the european asylum support office (easo); 3 posts for the european police office (europol). it also calls for a budget increase of eur 26.8 million. i think this is grossly too high. this is why i voted against this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this budgetary procedure which responds to current migration pressures.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report covering a reinforcement of the eu’s resources to manage migration and refugee flows. the increased budget is essential, especially considering the developments in the southern mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it covers a reinforcement of the union’s resources to manage migration and refugee flows, further to the recent developments in the southern mediterranean, in particular through additional appropriations for the frontex agency, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). it takes into account the room for redeployment, including from the galileo programme in payments, the total net increase of appropriations requested for these purposes amounts to eur 75.8 million in commitment appropriations and zero in payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ my colleague matt carthy, as shadow rapporteur of this file, worked hard at trying to have the interests of small farmers reflected within the provisions. unfortunately the final report had no tangible obligations contained within which would result in the irish dairy sector prospering in coming years; or see smaller family farms supported during turbulent times. the report could have been much more progressive in its proposals in terms of supports to farmers affected by extreme price volatility. farmers deserve a fair price for their produce and an ongoing situation whereby milk is often a loss-making product is unsustainable. there are ways in which the commission can and should be more proactive in offering support. for example, an intervention price can be a strong tool to balance a market but the intervention price has to reflect the cost of production. much of the positive predications of what the post-quota era would mean for milk farmers have abated in recent times. it is clear that many in the dairy sector are finding the increasing price volatility difficult to manage and if action is not taken many small farmers will be forced out of the sector. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this review fails to take into account the uk national interest or the huge percentage of our dairy trade which is in fresh milk. therefore, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this review fails to take into account the uk national interest or the huge percentage of our dairy trade which is in fresh milk. therefore, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this is unfair to the british dairy farmers who produce for a market which, unlike many other eu countries, demands fresh milk. it also risks creating another wasteful surplus such as was seen in the worst days of the cap.
in writing. ‒ this report considers the success thus far of the measures put forward under the 2012 milk package and identifies where action is needed to ensure a viable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the post-quota market. the report calls on the commission to address the current crisis facing the sector as a result of the russian embargo, a dip in global demand, global price volatility and the imbalance of power in the dairy supply chain. in particular, the report calls on the commission to strengthen the role of the milk market observatory in providing the sector with market data, including market indicators, price and consumption trends. the report also recommends that the commission work with the sector to explore the feasibility of a futures market for dairy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the dairy sector. the ecr is committed to better regulation and scrutiny of legislation. this review identifies areas that need action and reacts to changes in the sector. reviewing and reforming previous legislation is key to reduce the regulatory burden to our own constituents and the dairy sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the nicholson report given it openly undermines the free market arrangements in the dairy sector by making the case for a return to supply management of the sector. the definitive phasing out of milk quotas in april this year marked a success of years of hard work to bring competitiveness and efficiency to one of the key sectors of the eu’s rural economy. the end of milk quotas marked a beginning of a new era of productivity and fairness for farmers. i am disappointed that, instead of trying to focus on viable solutions, the tories and the liberals chose instead to make an irresponsible case to get back to market management and intervention. it was even more surprising to see some eurosceptic tories voting for the european commission to effectively commit more funds to market-distorting intervention. farmers are at the heart of our rural communities and everyone, from commissioners to consumers, must act to ensure they get a fairer deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it demonstrates our solidarity with dairy farmers affected by the global slump in milk prices. while we support measures aimed at reducing market inequalities in food supply chains, labour meps are calling for government action to strengthen the powers of the groceries code adjudicator to defend farmers’ interests against supermarkets driving down farm-gate prices, and for greater consumer action.
in writing. ‒ the uk dairy farmers are hit hard by this legislation since they, unlike their european colleagues, cater for a market which predominantly is involved in a market with a high demand for fresh milk rather than powdered or uht.
in writing. ‒ this report notes that the dairy sector has to date not fully engaged with such schemes as the protected geographical indicator status. many areas of the eu produce wonderful traditional dairy products and i include amongst those the cambus o’may cheese from my own constituency. pgi status adds value to these excellent products and i was happy to support this report.
in writing. ‒ this report stresses that dairy producers, especially small-scale dairy producers, are particularly vulnerable to imbalances in the supply chain, in particular owing to fluctuating demand, rising production costs and decreasing farm-gate prices, but also to the economic priorities in each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it demonstrates our solidarity with dairy farmers affected by the slump in milk prices. the report also includes useful policy suggestions aiming at reducing market imbalances in the food supply chains which has traditionally been a strong labour line. the report is also right in arguing in favour of enhancement of farmers’ participation in producers’ organisations, expansion in export opportunities for eu dairy produce and moving up the value chain in terms of innovation and improvement of quality of our dairy products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it demonstrates solidarity with dairy farmers affected by the slump in milk prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on prospects for the eu dairy sector. while it does demonstrate how farmers are affected by the slump in milk prices and includes useful policy suggestions aiming at reducing market imbalances in the food supply chains, the final report voted on in plenary included an amendment that would pose the risk of the reintroduction of milk quotas.
madam president, it is a pleasure to get to speak on the second day of the plenary. it has been a long battle to get to be heard, but thank you for that. fighting against pfi contracts and the problems that they cause is one of the main things that occupy me back in england, and to see anything that promotes this contagion of pfis is something that i will always vote against. a perfect example is that in the dudley group of hospitals in my constituency – one of the poorest areas in the uk – the private service provider has put up car park charges massively for people who cannot afford to pay to go and see their relatives and for hard-pressed hospital staff who are being taxed to go to work. this money goes into the pockets of private monopolies. these pfi schemes are the worst of all worlds: they are private monopolies, they are unethical and they are plain wrong, and we should oppose them at every point.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on public-private partnerships (ppps) and the impact of eu trade and investment policy. unfortunately, this parliament has adopted a very skewed and deceptive text which does not recognise the serious risks and problems ppps have for the delivery of public services to citizens. i am particularly disappointed that they include water supply as a target area for an increased participation of private companies. water supply is a natural monopoly. private companies prioritise profit for shareholders whilst public operators are more appropriate to provide safe, clean and accessible water to citizens. in my colleague-lynn boylan’s report-on the right2water she has underlined the need for the human right to water to be enshrined in eu legislation so that no operator can put profit before provision of water services to citizens. private involvement in the water sector has a record of failure across the world and should not be promoted by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that public-private partnerships represent the way forward, given the mess that they have caused in the uk.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that public-private partnerships represent the way forward, given the mess that they have caused in the uk.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on ppp-related challenges such as risks, transparency, accountability, corruption, management and cost-effectiveness while arguing that the increased participation of european companies in large scale ppp projects would lead to substantial benefits in terms of job creation, competitiveness leading to economic benefits across the eu and in developing countries delivering tangible development results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the zahradil report given it sets out a number of important recommendations on the use of private-public partnerships, including many that were championed by my group. these crucially include the need for the legal framework for ppps to be reinforced towards the establishment of a clear, predictable and legitimate institutional framework supported by competent and well-resourced authorities, the securing of adequate human resources to enable the administration to properly design ppps and oversee their implementation; and the need to undertake efforts to raise the capacity of public administration in developing countries. furthermore, it was key for my group to underscore that transfer of risks should be well defined to ensure the balance between the risk for the private sector and the guarantees that need to be offered by the public sector, and to include reference to the implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights as well as principles of good governance, transparency, the consultation of stakeholders and civil society organisations, and the fight against corruption and fraud. finally, it is vital to ensure that future ppps within the post-2015 development agenda, pursue poverty reduction and other sustainable development goals, and are aligned with partner countries’ national development plans.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my european socialist and democrat colleagues, voted in favour of this report. this report highlights the potentially positive contribution public-private partnerships can make to infrastructure development, whilst reinforcing the need within these for strong regulatory frameworks, and methods for fighting corruption. and crucially the report acknowledges that ppps are not, and should not ever be, a route to privatisation.
in writing. ‒ when my party came into power in scotland we moved away from previous governments’ obsession with lining the pockets of the private sector. the scottish futures trust now exists to make investments in scotland’s infrastructure in a manner efficient to the tax payer. unfortunately this report seems most concerned with maximising profit for shareholders and i accordingly voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which includes a number of key points including references to strong regulatory frameworks, smes, the principles of good governance and fighting corruption. the report also supports participation of stakeholders and civil society, gender mainstreaming, capacity-building in public administration of partner countries and references to the un guiding principles on business and human rights and csr. crucially, the report also acknowledges that ppps are not, and should not be, a route to privatisation, and governments retain the right to take over full management of such services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the use of public-private partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in countries outside the eu as it includes references to strong regulatory frameworks, smes, the principles of good governance and the fight against corruption. furthermore, i welcome the report’s support of participation of stakeholders and civil society, gender mainstreaming, capacity-building in public administration of partner countries, and references to the un guiding principles on business and human rights and csr.
in writing. ‒ this own initiative report aims to encourage the commission to present a legislative proposal aimed at the revision of the aid scheme for the fruit and vegetable sector. however, there were some problematic aspects to this report specifically recital ae, paragraphs 63 and 71 which welcomed the school milk and school fruit schemes, and the accompanying propaganda measures, as being beneficial for the fruit and vegetable sector. my colleague matt carthy was shadow rapporteur on the school milk and fruit scheme and he specifically highlighted that eu funds should not be spent on advertising eu involvement in the scheme as opposed to the promotion of healthy eating. however, there were a number of positive aspects to the report including §51 which called on third countries to adhere to the eu’s environmental, social, health, food safety and animal welfare standards if they export to the eu. it was for this reason that i tabled an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as a whole, but there were some good points contained in it. it recognises the need for more young people to eat more fruit and vegetables, although in my view this is a matter for national governments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as a whole, but there were some good points contained in it. it recognises the need for more young people to eat more fruit and vegetables, although in my view this is a matter for national governments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given i strongly support the measures it proposes to ensure efficient functioning of the fruit and vegetable sector, which is crucial for generating employment in agriculture as well as the food-processing sector across the eu, not in the least in the uk. while the eu fruit and vegetable scheme is already highly valued by uk farmers, it is important we send a strong signal to the commission in favour of implementing further simplification where possible. while i believe farmers should be compensated for losses they may suffer because of external factors, like the agrifood embargo that is currently hurting many that are active in the sector, i could however not give my support to the paragraph of the report that calls for crisis prevention and management measures to be financed outside of the cap budgetary envelopes, given the cap already provides adequate financial measures to deal with such emergencies.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my fellow labour meps, voted in favour of this report. the eu fruit and vegetable scheme is highly valued by uk farmers. however, as labour meps we voted against paragraph 60: we believe that the cap already provides sufficient financial measures to deal with crisis prevention and management.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights many issues of importance to the fruit and vegetable sector. today’s vote is timely given that 2015 is scotland’s year of food and drink, and i would encourage colleagues to take the opportunity to explore scotland’s wonderful fruit and vegetables.
in writing. ‒ the report’s welcome emphasis on measures intended to increase the market orientation of fruit and vegetable growers is important. there is also a strong focus on research and innovation in pos to boost product value. conservative meps have always called for pos to be given the flexibility to adapt their operational programmes to suit their level of maturity, and to target their funds on a broader range of measures aimed at increasing the sector’s competitiveness. to be attractive, we need a scheme that is more effective and more adaptive to market conditions. the report’s concentration on these measures is highly relevant to the sustainable growth of the fruit and vegetable sector. they represent more achievable aims for the po scheme and would give fruit and vegetable growers a better chance of adapting to market volatility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to give support for good organisation and efficient functioning of this important sector of the rural economy, generating employment not only in agriculture but particularly in the food-processing sector. the eu fruit and vegetable scheme is highly valued among uk farmers and deemed largely efficient. it is, however, important to send a strong signal to the commission in favour of further simplification of the scheme. at the same time, i support the development of pos as a way of increasing the bargaining power of fruit and vegetable farmers and managing market risks. the report’s provisions advocating shorter supply chains and the development of local markets for direct sales should also be strongly supported. i voted against paragraph 60 of the report, calling for the crisis prevention and management measures to be financed outside of the cap budgetary envelopes. whereas labour recognises the fairness of compensating farmers for losses they may suffer because of factors that remain out of their control (such as the russian agrifood embargo), the cap already provides adequate financial measures to deal with such emergencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which looks into implementation of the provisions concerning producer organisations, operational funds and operational programmes in the fruit and vegetable sector since its 2007 reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the report on the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform. while, i do not support the crisis prevention and management measures being financed outside of the cap budgetary envelopes, i am strongly in favour of the good organisation and efficient functioning of this important sector of the rural economy which generates employment not only in agriculture but particularly in the food processing sector.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, last year, from this very place, i warned of unprecedented challenges to our economies, our resources and our security, and today in much of europe the situation is no better. indeed, in many countries it is worse. europe does need to change, and the perpetual path to political union is not the solution, and my group does not support this. in my country six years ago we faced a deep economic crisis, but we now have more jobs than ever before and it is the fastest growing economy in the west. this is due to a long—term economic plan. in europe, the economy needs to come first, and it is competitiveness that drives jobs and growth. this resolution has some helpful suggestions. the eu should not churn out new laws without thinking about the impact on growth, small businesses and innovation. the commission has cut back new legislation, is focusing on making sure existing laws work and has promised to remove burdens for businesses and set a target for cutting red tape. this report supports all of that. i have also said that every eu initiative should face the simple test: will it make it easier or harder for businesses to thrive? this report supports that. a generation ago, politicians created the single market to make it easier to trade. this report says we must make it fit for purpose in a digital age, underpinning the digital revolution – not undermining it. this report supports that. we must increase external trade too. let us sign the deal with canada, and keep negotiating the one with the us. yes, we need investment, built on private funds because the crisis in public debt is even more acute today than it has been in the past. we need to sort out greece and to stop pretending that all sovereign credits are equal. structural reforms are key. majorities in this house at the moment are very narrow. grand plans are easily stalled. we do need less law, but it needs to be very well targeted to get support. my group wants to put the economy first, and to support the eu in putting competiveness first. we will work with others who share that vision.
mr president, like other colleagues, i welcome the provisions for country-by-country reporting in the directive with the objective of tax justice for our world, but as parliament’s rapporteur on corporate social responsibility, i welcome the recognition in this directive that business responsibility is an issue of corporate governance too. the move towards long-termism is an essential response to the financial crisis but is essential for sustainability too. the commission produced a communication saying it was in favour of long-term investment, and i strongly support the directive incentivising long—termism, as it chimes with the global move being led by the united nations environment programme finance initiative, the un principles for responsible investment and the un global compact. i support the right of shareholders to vote on remuneration policy and to be informed by their stakeholders too. if alcoa, ing national grid and shell can reward their executives based not just on profitability but also on sustainability, so can other companies. transparency throughout the investment chain, including for fund and asset managers and financial analysts, is important. i regret the fact that the uk government calls the provisions in this directive overly prescriptive. the aspects for institutional investors to engage with companies on social, environmental and human rights issues are important and are an important part of ensuring that the new eu law on non-financial reporting is actually used.
mr president, i support improving shareholder engagement and increasing transparency. but i feel that this report has moved too far away from those aims, instead placing unnecessary burdens on business. articles 3f, 3g and 3h risk revealing business-sensitive information with no obvious benefit to the public, and i ask: why should an asset manager be responsible for reducing his or her investees’ social and environmental risks? i am pleased that recent negotiations have reverted back to the commission’s initial ‘comply or explain’ approach, and i disagree with the obligation for member states to introduce additional measures to support long-term shareholding. surely shareholders should have rights which relate to their amount of capital investment rather than how long they have owned the shares. finally, the inclusion of a far-reaching country-by-country reporting requirement for large and listed companies in every eu country is unacceptable. this has nothing to do with shareholder rights, and it is inappropriate for those on the left of this house to attempt to include this issue in multiple files. instead we should promote the work that the g20 and the oecd have already done at an international level.
mr president, i believe this report is an important step forward in not just tackling shareholders’ rights but also tackling tax evasion. it is one of the first co-legislative files where we as a parliament have a say on tax issues, and i think companies have to be transparent about the taxes they pay. if they follow the rules, what exactly is the problem? i agree with another set of experts who actually say country-by-country reporting is a way of achieving this. it is a top priority for my group in terms of how we tackle tax evasion. what is crucial for major shareholders is to continue questioning the tax policies of their management. i think it is also crucial that the colleagues on the right of this house who talk about tackling tax evasion turn their words into action. we all want greater transparency on tax matters, especially given that ordinary citizens have to declare their earnings and pay taxes and accept deep cuts in all their services, while the multinationals still get away with paying very little. i know that the committee on legal affairs has made a clear, democratic decision and i hope that this house will seize the opportunity and support the vote tomorrow.
madam president, there are many elements of this report to be welcomed, but i also wish to focus on the area of country-by-country reporting. as colleagues have said, this would require large multinationals to report about their staff levels, turnover and tax paid in every eu country in which they are based. this reporting has got to be public: firstly, because shareholders and other investors need that information to make efficient allocation decisions, as many have already told me; secondly, because it is our right as consumers and as citizens to know basic information about the operations of firms within our own countries; and thirdly, because the vast majority of businesses already provide this information because they are only based in one country. finally, we need this information so that academics, journalists and ngos, as well as tax authorities, can help identify instances of abuse. let us grasp this opportunity and make things better for shareholders, for other investors and, above all, for taxpayers.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the emissions trading scheme has been for some time now the eu’s flagship policy, but there has been no wind in the sails. i take my hat off to mr belet, who has begun the journey of trying to reform what has been a dysfunctional but important policy. the challenges that we faced in trying to bring about compromise were not easy. the start date alone created a great deal of tension, not only in this parliament but also in many of our own individual groups. i think the 2019 start is the right start. i am also aware of the challenge again of those unallocated allowances measured in the billions represented. i am pleased, again, that they have been sequestered away because without that happening, quite frankly, this process would not work. i am also aware that the phase 4 of the emissions trading scheme that we must shortly embark upon will again ask very serious questions about the functionality which we must achieve if the emissions trading scheme is to deliver and if in the bygoing we are going to begin to link that scheme with comparable schemes in the rest of the globe. but i am fully aware that if we get this wrong, and if we do put a burden upon many of our larger emitters, then we will have serious challenges. that is why i am pleased again to see that there are conditions affecting carbon leakage. we must get that right too. we do not wish to find ourselves securing significant reductions in our emissions simply by the exclusion and the loss of industry, which is important in so many parts of our union. all that being said, i think where we are now is in the right place. i believe we are going to make significant progress if we can put on the table the beginning of a functioning emissions trading scheme when it comes to the cop meeting in paris. i look forward to the vote tomorrow. i think we should endorse this as an important step forward – but it is just that: the first step forward. we have much further to go yet if we are indeed to embrace the challenges represented by paris.
madam president, the eu emissions trading scheme is the cornerstone of the european union’s policy to combat climate change and covers around 45% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions. however, the current eu ets is flawed, as it fails to address problems of oversupply of allowances in the market, which enable the industry to emit greenhouse gases. it is crucial that we take action to repair the ets and turn it into a mechanism that both controls emissions and promotes investment in clean technologies such as renewables. we need to give stability and predictability to the eu ets in order both to achieve our climate objectives and to give more stability to industry. i believe the market stability reserve is the right instrument to achieve stability in the market. it has been the position of the s&d to support its introduction as soon as possible by transferring carbon allowances to the market stability reserves in times of over-supply and releasing them in times of under-supply. the eu ets will be more flexible and more stable and therefore better placed to achieve our climate goals. we must have a balanced system that will benefit our industries and enable a transition to a sustainable and green economy in europe, which will provide a model for other countries worldwide. we as europeans owe this to our citizens, our industries and future generations. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i represent the north-west of england and, as my colleagues will be aware, the mining industry was incredibly important to my region, as are all the technologies and the industries that we are determined to protect through this modernisation of the ets msr. we have taken action through the modernisation fund, and we will have stability with other member states to make sure that this is an initiative which both protects the climate and promotes renewables, and protects our industries.
madam president, the rapporteur supports the commission’s proposal to introduce a market stability reserve on the basis that this reform will govern fluctuations in the market, providing long-term predictability and stability to european industries. this is untrue. mechanisms like the ets, the back-loading system and now the msr are one of the main causes of the impoverishment of our industries. the idea that the ets and its traded co2 emissions will send a signal to the market, thus promoting energy conservation and new low-carbon technologies, has proved to be a failure. recognising the ongoing failure of the ets, the commission now proposes to introduce a market stability reserve. however, what many do not realise is that a market mechanism, requiring constant regulatory intervention to maintain the price levels originally foreseen, is in itself a contradiction, as markets are supposed to set their own prices autonomously. we should not support plant closures, carbon leakage, and industry and job losses. we need to reinvigorate the declining eu economy with a new competitive approach.
madam president, of course ets as a policy instrument is not perfect, but it is the key policy instrument that we have here in the eu, and it is interesting that those today who have criticised it have done just that. that is all they have done, they have criticised it. they have come up with no concrete idea of how else we would reduce greenhouse gases, and on that basis one can only conclude that they have no concern about decreasing greenhouse gases. in fact, in many cases i am well aware that they deny that there is any problem at all with greenhouse gases, and it is unfortunate that this sort of argument is still going on here, because it certainly is way out of the mainstream of thinking on the science of these issues. i would like to just mention one issue, and that is carbon leakage. we need to take into account the competitiveness of industry. this is not incompatible with our climate change objectives, and it is very annoying to hear yet again today a polarisation of these arguments. we talk about converting to low-carbon technologies – only yesterday, mr. timmermans sat here and told us that the future of european industry is in smart green technology – but in order to advance that we need to have investment, we need to be profitable and we need to be able to have the funds to go forward and make that change.
madam president, we in europe are facing a crisis of competitiveness, and that crisis is brought on by very high energy prices. we are seeing plants closing, jobs being lost. we are seeing investment moving offshore out of europe entirely, and yet we in this house today are discussing a policy explicitly designed to make energy more expensive. we should be debating here today how we make energy less expensive. it seems, colleagues, that we have an economic death wish. as my colleague dr reid has already said, any market mechanism (so—called) which starts out with a preconceived price level and which requires constant regulatory intervention in order to achieve that price is not, in fact, a market mechanism at all. what it is is an extremely cumbersome and bureaucratic and expensive carbon tax. so why do we not cut to the chase and have a sensible carbon tax or, better still, no carbon tax at all?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, when your ship is on course for an iceberg, you turn it around. the answer is not ‘steady as she goes’. our rapporteur speaks of the cost of eu membership as a percentage of gdp. this is a conjuring trick – gdp is of course roughly three times our total tax take. nor does he take into account the huge cost of compliance with european union legislation. this will be more of the same budget for more of the same european union. if the greek óchi teaches us one thing, it is that this is no time for more of the same. one of the problems here is the eu principle of ever closer union, because who here will dare to admit that anything, anything at all, could be done more efficiently by a sovereign nation than by the brussels bureaucracy?
mr president, this report talks about accountability, value for money and big on big, small on small. that is enormously encouraging, and for that, my grateful thanks to commissioner georgieva, who brings real common sense and discipline to the whole budget procedure. but i have a concern. this parliament takes a keen interest in the formulation of the budget, but we take very little interest in the outcome and performance of the budget. that is not acceptable. colleagues, we are spending taxpayers’ money, and yet we have no way of assessing value for money, no procedure for gauging effectiveness, and no scrutiny. in consequence, too often our decisions are based on political traditions, and far too seldom are they based on sound, proven evidence.
mr president, i would like to thank mr fernandes for his work on this mandate, and i also welcome commissioner georgieva’s focus on the revival of the economy, but it cannot just be about supporting the shape of the economy today, it has to be about shaping the economy of the future as well. that is why the horizon 2020 budget is so important, and the 2016 budget trilogue should be used as a means to reinforce this area. the research and innovation that is supported through horizon 2020 is the means by which we can secure good-quality jobs into the future – a future that involves huge technological change. it is through this area that we can make sure that those generations that come after us, as well as those that are in work today, have got the jobs that are so necessary for them.
author.– madam president, today we update our internal security strategy for 2015 to 2020, proposed by the commission. in doing so we could not have envisaged in just how important a context we would discuss the need for increased cooperation of the highest quality to ensure the security of our citizens and to ensure we get the balance right between tackling terrorism, on the one hand, and ensuring that those same terrorists do not disrupt the freedoms we enjoy. it is always the case that member states provide the first response in terms of internal security, but it is now absolutely clear that cooperation across borders of the european union and cooperation in the priority areas of counter-terrorism, cyber security and related organised crime have taken on a renewed importance. let us not forget the terrorist attacks of recent days on eu citizens in tunisia, in paris some months ago, in copenhagen and in brussels – and, of course, today marks the anniversary of 7/7 in my own city of london, which was the biggest single terrorist attack on uk citizens. so what is parliament contributing in terms of the commission’s priorities for a modernised security agenda at this critical and sensitive moment? first we underline that in preventing radicalisation we must search for the best possible models of european practice on so-called ‘foreign fighters’. in monitoring the internet for content which may lead to terrorist attacks, we must stick to the rule of law so as not to end up in the grey zones of censorship. in fighting violent extremism and terrorism we should use our existing tools effectively before creating new tools, and in doing so we should not undermine the very fundamental values that terrorists wish to violate. we want to be practical in this house, and our practical priorities for this parliament, in terms of existing and new measures, are firstly to update the sis ii system to make compulsory alerts of persons convicted or suspected of terrorism and to help member states implement travel bans at national level. secondly, the importance of cross-border access to information and in particular the european police record index system. third, parliament is calling for a legal framework for all semi-permanent or permanent joint investigation teams and, of course, the pnr directive by the end of 2015. we suggest possible solutions to the most sensitive and difficult security challenges – for example, online terrorism threats and online radicalisation. we never say that this is going to be easy, but we welcome new structures within europol called the european counter—terrorism centre and the effective work that it is already doing. we never say that this is easy or without risk or without problems. we also welcome cooperation with it companies and civil society and law enforcement authorities through an eu forum to develop tools to counter terrorist propaganda online and in social media. the resolution that we present is full of ideas from members of this parliament who have great experience spanning many years of dealing with terrorism and dealing with many reports in this house – both legislative and non—legislative. that is why the import of what i am saying today is: please treat the european parliament as your partner in dealing with the eu security strategy. i know that in dealing with this resolution we have had many shades of opinion and political differences, but the most important thing that i want to say as chair of this committee is that the expertise, both in terms of security and in terms of fundamental rights and understanding of data issues, is very rich in this parliament. so please, commissioner, treat that with seriousness. please, president—in—office, see the expertise in parliament. i say that to both parts of our european union. i would also say that, from pnr to tackling radicalisation, these are very sensitive ongoing issues, but the european parliament will play its part. we fully understand that the union’s internal security has become more complex, asymmetric and difficult to predict, but equally we understand that there has been more value placed on cross-border cooperation, data sharing and cyber security. for these very good reasons you will find full commitment and partnership in the eu security agenda. i look forward to hearing the contributions of my colleagues who contributed to the resolution before the house today, and i ask the commissioner to respond in as detailed a way as we have contributed to that resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, today we remember all those who tragically lost their lives in the senseless and merciless acts of terror in london ten years ago. we also remember the families and friends who live with their grief every day, and our thoughts are obviously with them today. also, recent events in paris have tragically reminded us that our security and our freedom are never guaranteed, and that maintaining our security is one of the greatest challenges we face. the right to security is a fundamental right, and we have a responsibility, as legislators, to ensure that we protect people and that we detain and punish those who seek to do us harm. whilst the commission’s strategy has been welcomed by me and my group, unfortunately, i fear that parliament’s response and recommendations would insufficiently equip the eu and its member states to fight the worst kinds of criminality. ensuring data protection, fundamental rights and self-reflection are, of course, an important part of creating effective policies in the area of security and law enforcement and a vital ingredient in order for measures to be proportionate, necessary and democratic. however, focusing on these elements alone is not sufficient to deliver a strategy intended to keep the eu and its citizens safe for the next four years. law-making is about balance. i see little balance in the resolution from parliament. the eu needs policies, measures, resources, expertise and actions which show that criminality and terror have no place in the eu. we need to be talking in serious and clear terms about how we protect children from abuse and exploitation; how we stop radicalisation; how we can better exchange law enforcement information; how we can stop drugs and arms smuggling; how we can help protect victims and how we can ensure that law enforcement agencies have the funding and resources they require to be effective. this was not intended to be a resolution on fundamental rights; it was supposed to be a resolution on delivering clear and firm security. therefore, i cannot support something which, sadly, misses the point.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, this motion for a resolution calls for the implementation of the european agenda on security, and various spurious reasons are given for the growth in international crime and terrorism. as usual, the eu solution to any problem is to call for an increase in its powers and to usurp the powers of the democratic governments of nation states. the fundamental problem in relation to the increasing crime in some member states is the eu’s own open borders policy. the fundamental problem in relation to the increase in terrorism is the growth of islamic fundamentalism. neither of these problems is addressed in this motion. the start of a solution is to return border controls to nation states, which would discourage and hamper the movement of criminals, illegal migrants and terrorists. when such barriers are in place, we can then adopt genuine security cooperation measures between independent nation states.
madam president, let me start by thanking claude moraes for the good job that he is doing. the eu security agenda is a welcome framework in which to address the rise in organised crime, terrorism and cyber crime. cross-border cooperation and exchanges of information must be strengthened, whilst upholding the right to freedom of movement and privacy for eu citizens. however, crime and terrorist activities are not confined within the borders of the eu. eu internal security and global security are mutually dependent and interlinked. radicalisation must not only be tackled at local and eu level, through community integration work and education and by having dialogue and anti—discrimination policies; it must also be tackled outside our borders, as the challenge we are facing also has origins outside the eu. common security and defence policies play an important role in realising the eu’s security goals. the eu has never before faced such a convergence of security crises on its doorstep. security and defence now matter more than ever. we need to stop talking about security: it is high time we started delivering security.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, first of all i would like to express my thanks to all of you for this debate on the future of eu internal security. referring to some of your remarks and your questions on counter-terrorism, i would like to inform you that during our debate that will take place tomorrow, as you know, i plan to update you in detail on the work that is ongoing. today, as you know, was the third time that the commission and the european parliament have exchanged views on the content of the european agenda on security. last december, this parliament gave useful advice and guidance to the commission in its preparation of the agenda. let me tell you that i took note of almost everything that was said, and i want to express my gratitude for your contributions. in april this year, the commission responded to the european parliament’s resolution by presenting the european agenda on security. as you have seen, the commission’s agenda took up much of your earlier guidance. in the short period of one semester, the european parliament, the commission and the council have developed in a successful way a shared vision of what needs to be done in concrete terms at union level to make europe more secure for the sake of our citizens. we have found common ground on the main threats, principles and priorities, and thereby defined a renewed internal security strategy. in the spirit of the lisbon treaty it is now time to work closely together towards the implementation of this renewed strategy. one institution alone cannot meet the ambitious goals that we have set for ourselves. our three institutions are mutually interdependent to deliver. we are all each other’s key partner. therefore, permanent and flexible cooperation is needed to ensure consistency, complementarity and continuity of action over the next five years. i am looking forward to this cooperation.
acting president of the council. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the honourable member once again for asking these questions, which have enabled us to have this important debate on a subject which is of the deepest concern to our citizens. i have not much to add to what the commissioner has just said. of course, the right to security is a fundamental right and we all know - and you have repeated this many times - that our countries and our citizens are facing all kinds of new phenomena of crime or terrorism; the two go together very often. these phenomena know no borders. they operate on a truly global scale and they use and master, sometimes perfectly, new technologies. hence the real threat posed by cybercrime. it is also true that terrorism poses a real challenge to us. a challenge to our open societies, a challenge to our states and to our democratic systems for which security and freedom, freedom and security are intimately linked. that's the strength of our democracies. that is why this strategy is so important and why we must work together to implement it effectively. it will help to strengthen our union so that it protects its citizens and fully respects rights and freedoms. the luxembourg presidency is determined to favour a comprehensive approach involving all the actors. it will pay the greatest attention to the views and concerns of parliament as expressed in today's debate and in its resolution.
rapporteur.– madam president, i wanted to start by thanking all the shadows for their very serious input to my report and also the opinions from the two committees. we also held a round table in brussels and a hearing in the committee. i really welcome all the additional input that came from those that participated. while the issue around green jobs was originally to have been published with the circular economy paper with the previous commission, i really welcome the opportunity to debate it this evening, in particular with a very good report on employment guidelines, which i think makes this discussion more strategic, rather than a small niche area. we know that the european union needs jobs. we have just heard that being very eloquently put. we can identify a number of new sectors where we can find them. and we have seen resilience, for example in the environmental services sector, during the crisis. we also know we need to respond to global trends, the inefficient re-use of resources, the unsustainable pressure on our environment and, indeed, climate change. we know that we have growing social exclusion and inequalities challenging our societies. so we really need to maximise the employment potential of new sectors. we need to change working practices and methods to increase resource efficiency, minimise environmental impact and take care of those whose existing employment may be adversely affected by change. we also want to ensure that those new jobs are quality jobs that actually pay a decent wage, as the international labour organisation has in its definition of a green job. so what does it take to help maximise this potential? we were clearly told in the hearing and elsewhere that we need a coherent comprehensive policy framework which will provide a predictable environment for training and investment. that was recognised at the meeting of eu environment and employment ministers not so long ago. so we need policies that are mutually reinforcing, not running off in different directions. whether that is within the semester or within the eu 2020 strategy and the review of the strategy, we need the ‘just transition’ roadmaps which will move from the local level onwards to actually help people plan for the changes that we need. we need this to be reinforced by an efficient implementation of relevant eu legislation with clear and ambitious targets where those are appropriate. we also need this effort to be supported strategically by european union funds, including as well the 2016 review of the multiannual financial framework, using that as an opportunity to promote the green transition of the economy. we were also told in the background to this report that there are three very effective drivers of change: environmental tax reform (which proved very controversial in the committee), energy and resource efficiency and the development of the supply chain. we are also aware how essential workforce engagement is in initiating, owning and helping to create the necessary changes. there is clear evidence of the value of this engagement. so we should be taking full advantage of the existing experience and opportunities within social partnership and sectoral and social dialogue. there are many companies that want to make changes but are not confident or cannot find people with the right skills. so we need to raise general awareness, to promote stem skills and to make sure that women can also participate in the new economy. we need to look at generic sectoral and specific skills, as well as at supporting smes in the changes that they are trying to make.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, according to the figures quoted in this report, the renewable energy economy will create 20 million new jobs in europe. but let us look at some of the numbers behind that headline statistic. research by a spanish academic found that for every one green job created, another 2.2 jobs were lost in the real economy. in the manufacturing sector alone it is estimated that about four jobs are lost for every one green job. that means, according to the commission’s own projections, that, with the eu’s green agenda (which ignores any opposing science), 44 million jobs will be lost. unemployment across the whole of the eu is 10.5%. towns in my region in britain, including grimsby, bradford, barnsley and hull, have youth unemployment of over 25%. but the only jobs i can see being created by this report, and by the green representatives, are in the trade unions which ms lambert calls for, where the people in question will, no doubt, get significant salaries and enjoy very generous expense accounts.
madam president, i would like to congratulate laura agea on a great report which has had a very wide degree of consensus here. we all agree that successful businesses are ones which value their workers, which pay them properly, which look after them and their health and safety and which treat them with respect. there is a very wide degree of consensus across nations and across political groups in this house but not, unfortunately, in the united kingdom, where the government does not believe those things at all. we have recently had a reduction in unemployment in the united kingdom to levels not seen since the previous labour government, but it is poor-quality employment, employment in which five million people are in low-paid jobs. two million people are on zero-hour contracts. that is the difference, the fundamental philosophical difference, and it is one in which, i am afraid, they are wrong and in this house people are right.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like once again to thank both rapporteurs, ms agea and ms lambert, for their reports. i can assure you that the deliberations in parliament have inspired the commission during the entire adoption process of its employment guidelines proposal. in general, the commission could accept most of your amendments. the goal of the guidelines is to be operational for policy—making by member states, and that is why the commission focused on what member states can do and on short operational texts. as you know, there is currently a general approach of the council on the table. in general, many of your amendments are in line with those proposed by the council. the council’s general approach includes an explicit recognition that action in line with the employment guidelines is an important contribution for the european union to the europe 2020 objectives. it also incorporates further explicit references to quality and social goals. the commission feels that its employment guidelines proposal is well balanced and that the parliament’s report generally supports this view. i would also like to thank you very much for your discussion on the green employment initiative report, as well as for the enriching contributions of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi). i want to thank members of parliament for their support on shifting taxation away from labour onto environmentally harmful activities. as you know, taxation is a national competence. nonetheless, the commission has been recommending this shift for years in the framework of the european semester. i heard many of you talking about skills mismatches, skills upgrading, and transition from school to work and so on. i share your preoccupation, and i am working with colleagues to address these issues. in particular, last month we made efforts to give a new boost to the european alliance for apprenticeships by convincing enterprises to make pledges to create more possibilities and more places for apprentices so that they have the chance to have some work-based learning experience. the commission will be carefully considering ms lambert’s report, not only in the implementation of the green employment initiative, but also when promoting green skills and social dialogue aspects in both the energy union and in the forthcoming circular economy package. this highlights a strong link between investment in human capital, and the capacity to innovate and roll out innovative, resource—efficient processes and technologies.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would also very much like to thank colleagues for their warm words this evening, and the report, i think, really does reflect the work across most of the political groups. i want to see how we can make the green jobs report link with the employment guidelines so that we really do move this forward. one thing i do regret is that i did not get the name of the anonymous spanish economist so that i can check on the figures we were being given about the job swap, because i really hope that we are not just seeing some jobs go, green jobs come in, and somebody making the assumption that green ones are forcing the others out. we live in a world of change, and the way in which we get through that transition and try to do that in the best interests of all of us and our planet is very important. the potential is clear – we have heard that from so many people in this room tonight. whether it is the social impact and the environmental impact of energy efficient buildings, or whether it is working on renewable energies. these are jobs, a lot of which are ‘sur place’ and not offshore, which can make a real difference to people’s lives. as regards the small business sector, we have figures showing that 93% of small businesses have tried to take some small step towards resource efficiency. it saves them money. they believe it is the right thing to do, and they want to do more of it, but they need support. they need support in terms of the skills, and they need support in terms of actually finding support that might be out there in financial terms. i would like to make an advert here: the committee on employment and social affairs has, i think, put forward a very useful pilot project along these lines that i hope members will support. the skills development is crucial, but it is not enough; it is about that broad coherent policy framework. so i really hope the commission is going to take this on board, as we have heard, in the energy union and the circular economy package. we cannot leave this sort of change to chance. it needs to be managed if we are really to see the full potential – socially, economically and environmentally. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the minister for what they have said tonight. it is vital we get a deal next week in addis, and i hope the talks tonight in new york are fruitful, because they are going to set the agenda for new york and for paris. if we do not get a deal there it will be harder in those subsequent conferences. now we have already made our position clear on oda in the pereira report – ms pereira is going to speak in a few moments – but i want to focus on tax tonight. the oecd has estimated that, if we could increase tax revenue by 1% in developing countries, it would be like doubling oda. so tax is crucial, and that is why we need concrete measures to tackle tax problems. we need companies and individuals to pay their fair share of tax, and some of these concrete measures are in the schlein report. we need to stamp out illegal practices like trade mis—invoicing, where companies manipulate tax invoices so they do not pay their fair share. save the children has published a report with some shocking figures. in sub-saharan africa, eur 15 billion a year are lost through these unpaid taxes. that is money that would pay for decent healthcare, and it would pay to tackle childhood malnutrition. i think those who are dodging those taxes need to know that they are literally taking money out of the mouths of babes. to tackle these problems, we need concrete proposals and we have heard some tonight. we need new accountancy rules; we need country-by-country reporting, and it has to be public. companies must be made to report publicly on what they are doing so that we can track down those who are not paying their fair dues. i hope we will push for that in addis and in the subsequent talks.
madam president, this report seems to me to be barking up the wrong tree, attempting to solve a peripheral symptom of the real problem in developing nations, that of corruption. nigeria is a prime example of how governmental corruption has nurtured an environment of low investor confidence, which has allowed corporations to abuse the free market by investing in the countries with the most disjointed tax evasion laws and ethos. this report states that transparency is the key in holding tax evaders accountable. but is this realistic? these countries are not blessed with the scale of technological advancements we enjoy. so one could argue that this claim is not just far-reaching but also, frankly, counterproductive. before the issue of tax avoidance can be addressed properly, corruption must be dealt with in developing nations. if you are going to legislate hard on something, it might as well be the root of the evil, rather than the by-product of that evil.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, what we are seeing in this chamber this morning, and indeed across the whole of europe, is an irreconcilable cultural difference between greece and germany: a split between the north and the south of europe. europe, the european project, is actually beginning to die. nobody in this room will recognise that, but actually the peoples of europe are saying, ‘we were never asked whether we wanted this: this has been foisted upon us.’ and we need to understand why economic and monetary union does not work. those monsters kohl and mitterrand, backed by a clever but dangerous delors, believed that if they put in place an economic and monetary union, then, as night follows day, there would be political union. they believed there would be acceptance of this project; that the north and south of europe would converge; that we would all start to love each other; that we would all begin to feel a european identity; that we would all begin to show allegiance to the flag and the anthem. those of us, of course, who criticised this were told that we were extremists and we lacked vision. well, in one respect we did not lack vision: we understood that the countries of europe are different, and that if you try to force together different people or different economies, without first seeking the consent of those people, it is unlikely to work, and the plan has failed. this is not just greece we are talking about today: the whole of the mediterranean now finds itself in the wrong currency, and yet virtually nobody in the political arena has got the courage to stand up and say that. i feel that the continent is now divided from north to south: there is a new berlin wall and it is called ‘the euro’. the old enmities have been resumed. just listen to the way that the german leader of the christian democrat group this morning attacked mr tsipras. i think it was absolutely disgusting, but it shows the way north and south now feel about each other. mr tsipras, your country should never have joined the euro – i think you acknowledge that – but the big banks, the big businesses and big politics forced you in. goldman sachs, the german arms manufacturers, they were all very happy. and when the bailouts began, they were not for the greek people. those bailouts were to bail out french, german and italian banks: they have not helped you at all. these years of austerity, these years of high unemployment, of increasing poverty: none of it has worked. in fact, your debt-to-gdp ratio has gone from 100% at the start of the crisis to 180% right now. it would be madness to continue on this course. you have been very brave. you called that referendum, although when one of your predecessors tried to do the same, the bully boys of brussels had him removed. they tried their best again – mr juncker said you would have to leave the euro and the european union. even mr schulz, the president of parliament, who one would have thought might be neutral, said that if the greeks voted no, their power supplies might even go down. there were threats and bullying, but the greeks stood firm. however, sir, you cannot have your cake and eat it. they will give you no more, these people: they cannot afford to. if they give you more, they will have to give other eurozone members more. so your moment has come. and frankly, if you have got the courage, you should lead the greek people out of the eurozone with your head held high: get back your democracy, get back control of your country, give your people the leadership and the hope that they crave. yes, it will be tough for the first few months, but with a devalued currency, and with friends of greece all over the world, you will recover. (applause from group)
madam president, i am deeply sorry for the greek people. they have been ill-served by a corrupt political class who spent too much and borrowed too much for far too long. not only did greece fiddle its economic statistics in order to join the euro, but the other states knew they were a fiction. greece was allowed to join the euro because it was always a political, rather than an economic, project. sad to say, the euro is not working. nor are millions of young people in greece and across europe. i am not surprised that the greek people voted ‘no’ to reject further austerity. further tax rises now are insane. i would have voted ‘no’ as well. but if i were a taxpayer in a eurozone country, i would also vote ‘no’ to giving greece any more money. greece is bankrupt, and it would be best if the eurozone states admitted this to their taxpayers. mr tsipras, your behaviour suggests you know greece has to leave the euro, but you do not want to admit it. you are waiting to be kicked out so you can play the martyr. i recommend you negotiate an orderly exit from the euro, which is the best chance greece has of recovering.
mr president, prime minister, the brave and dignified greek people asserted the primacy of democracy over the technocratic and neoliberal order in europe. during, before and since sunday’s decisive vote, your government upheld its democratic anti-austerity mandate whilst trying to seek agreement with european partners. however, creditors are inflicting poverty and deprivation on greece, refusing debt relief and investment. even the imf, which is not a friend of the left, confirms that greece needs debt relief. despite hostility and interference from president martin schulz, who has behaved like a self-appointed dictator, or the cowardly behaviour from a sturdy poster boy of the eu, irish taoiseach enda kenny, the greek government has stood up for greece, stood up for ireland, stood up for spain, for portugal for europe, more than any government has ever done. irish people from kerry to derry stand with you. prime minister alexis tsipras, you used the most powerful weapon in the world – democracy – and it won before the first vote was cast. we are proud of who you are and the policies that you represent. (applause from gue/ngl party)
mr president, for the past five years the greek people have suffered. they have been subject to austerity measures that have led to mass unemployment, with over 50% of young people out of work. families have struggled to feed their children, unable to pay their rent: to think that we are talking about a country which is proudly known as the cradle of democracy. it is unbelievable, yet still it goes on and on and on. is this predicament the fault of the greek people? of course not – but still they struggle. they have been asked to choose between a future of further suffering, or a journey into the abyss. they look one way and see people who only care about austerity. in the other direction there are only those who preach irresponsibility. they have been failed by successive governments, including this one, and an eu too entrenched in the dogma of austerity. so what happens now? please put your egos aside, all of you, and provide a solution now – a solution that does not let down the greek people. no more brinkmanship, no more games. this is about the future of the greek people. for god’s sake, please give them some hope. (applause from group)
in writing.– this is more than ever a critical time for the people of greece. the sacrifices made and hardships endured by so many greeks have been unjustifiable and must not have been made for nothing. yet another strong democratic message has been sent by greek citizens in support of their key demand to end unfair austerity measures. the british labour movement stands in solidarity with greece, and i congratulate my colleagues in westminster, including eight london labour members of parliament, who have this week signed an early day motion in support of greece. the european union and its institutions must stop the blame game and find a solution that includes reasonable assistance terms and restructuring of greek debt.
mr president, he is going so fast, it’s ‘for, against, abstain’. it’s gone before you’ve got your hand up. (sustained heckling)i am sorry if you want your lunch, but maybe we would like to vote. get over yourselves and do your jobs!
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, a mosque in kuwait, a factory in france and a beach in tunisia – there should be little to connect these three disparate places, but following the devastating attacks on 26 june 2015, they will forever be linked in infamy. all of the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks were somehow linked to isis in terms of its poisonous ideology. one year on from the lightning advance of isis, the group is becoming a more permanent fixture, tragically and unfortunately, of the map of the middle east. on the same day, and months after the liberation of kobane had been celebrated, isis carried out one of its most deadly massacres to date, storming the city and executing up to 250 civilians, many of whom were children. these attacks illustrate that, by allowing isis to establish a foothold in iraq and syria, a new magnet for jihadi terrorism has been created. we became used to understanding, in the past, international terrorist activities of the al-qaida model, based on perceived grievances, no matter how unjustified. but now isis offers a new, more brutal, territorial death cult model, in which terrorist attacks are more firmly based on attacking religious beliefs and minority individuals, and they are more involved in attacking these people than in attacking the state. whilst clearly we need to do more in the european union to ensure that our societies remain vigilant and develop means to detect and prevent radicalisation and recruitment, we also need to have enhanced domestic security measures, such as the passenger name records (pnr) system for aviation, and better internet monitoring of terrorist activities. ultimately, however, we must also take the fight against evil isis everywhere, particularly militarily in syria, iraq and libya. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– as someone who takes a great deal of interest in the western balkans – as the rapporteur for montenegro – i have followed events closely as the shadow for bosnia and herzegovina. clearly, in all the western balkan countries, amongst the muslim minorities – particularly in kosovo, albania, macedonia, and bosnia and herzegovina – there is a serious problem of radicalisation and of jihadi terrorists departing from these countries. up to several hundred of them may be, as we speak, fighting for isis in iraq and syria. this is a serious problem. member states are aware of it and nato is taking it very seriously. everything must be done to prevent this flow. i agree with you entirely: it is a major security risk to that region.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, a fortnight ago in the european parliament, i warned that the next terrorist attack was a case of not if, but when and where. we had the answer 48 hours later. we had a beheading in the french town of grenoble, a massacre of 38 innocents in the tunisian resort of port el kantaoui and a bombing of a mosque in kuwait. what did all of these attacks have in common? now some may find what i am about to say to be unpalatable, some might find it politically incorrect, but the simple fact is the one thing they all had in common was they were done in the name of islam. now i hear people in my own country claim the opposite and say that these outrages have nothing to do with islam. but this is not only ludicrous, it is also extremely dangerous. these terrorists commit these atrocities and quote the text from the holy book of islam, so to suggest that these attacks have nothing to do with islam is akin to suggesting that the inquisition had nothing to do with the catholic church. indeed, if we are to deal with radical islamism then we must at least have the courage to name its source. it is not just poverty and poor education, it is a literal and backward interpretation of the koran. but not only do we in the west turn another cheek to extremism, we actively encourage it. we turn a blind eye to misogyny, homophobia, limb amputation, and the funding of extremism in return for arms deals and oil, and this primarily takes place with the states of saudi arabia and qatar. we must make a stand on moral grounds and say enough is enough. because if we do not, i fear that there will be a clash of civilisations at some point this century, and this clash will not be fought in the deserts of the middle east, it could well be fought on the streets, in the cities and the towns of europe. we are the politicians of today, ladies and gentlemen, and we have a duty to hand on a stable and better society to our descendants, and that is not a society where the words of a woman is worth half of that of a man; it is not a society where homosexuals are persecuted, and it is not a society where unbelievers are second-class citizens. christians and muslims alike, if we do not take a stand, history will look upon us as the generation that surrendered our hard-fought liberal western democracy in favour of something darker, something more intolerant and something wholly illiberal. burying our heads in the sand, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer an option. we must act: we owe it to our children.
mr president, my colleague paul nuttall’s speech of a few minutes ago said many of the things that i might hope to say and with which i totally agree. the threat that we all face in the west – and not just in the west – is from fundamentalist islam. the terrorists and the extremists all have one thing in common: they are all reading the same book, and it is called the koran. it contains exhortations, such as ‘kill unbelievers wherever you find them’, ‘make war on unbelievers’ and ‘strike terror into the hearts of unbelievers’. some people take that literally. we are told by our leaders that islam is a religion of peace and love. the problem is that it is actually a contradictory mishmash of nonsense. the problem is that the extremists and the fundamentalists actually choose the bits that they like in order to satisfy their bloodlust and earn themselves 72 virgins in paradise, although nobody has actually come back to confirm that they get them. western liberal democracies must make it plain that extremist, fundamentalist islam has no place in western society. we all come into contact with moderate, peace-loving muslims every day. they are not the problem. their ideology is. we must support the moderates against the extremists. sun tzu said that the first place you win a war is in the mind of your opponent. all propagandists know the importance of words. if you control words, you control how your opponent thinks and reacts. most religions are named after their founders – christianity, the religion of christ; buddhism, the religion of buddhists; judaism the religion of the jews – and yet we accept the word islam – submission to the will of allah. it is not. it is the construction of a person. let us go back to what we used to call this religion 30 or 40 years ago: mohammedanism. it is the cult of mohammed, and these people accept the death cult of mohammed. let us make it plain that we do not accept this ideology and take practical measures to defeat the extremists and support those moderates who want to stay in western liberal democracies. if they want to live under sharia law, then they should go and live in one of the countries where they can do that.
blue-card question.– i would like to thank the member for her words and particularly for her work with the victims of terrorism. does she agree with me that we must stand up for the victims of terrorism and particularly ensure that this house and our own national governments distinguish clearly, and in a legislative framework, between those who carry out vile acts of terrorism and their innocent victims?
mr president, i agree with what has been said about the horrific attacks which took place in tunisia. that brings into sharp focus the vulnerability people face all over the world against an enemy fixed on the idea of senseless terror and destruction. attacks in australia, historically the uk, france and tunisia show that we are vulnerable everywhere. it is not scaremongering. it is a reality. what is clear is that the eu cannot operate in a vacuum. this threat extends beyond our borders. whilst it is essential we cooperate with each other in europe, it is vital also that we cooperate with third countries to provide global security, and of course we need an effective strategy to counter radicalisation and exchange information. tunisia, like every other country in europe, cannot be expected to respond to this threat on its own, and it needs our help. we need a global and a unified strategy for the fight against terrorism and against isis.
mr president, security in europe and its wider neighbourhood is being challenged every day. the recent terrorist attacks by isil demand our full attention. once more, we see the terrorists have no mercy. they do not discriminate; they are modern bandits who kill muslims and non-muslims alike. in the last few weeks they have killed tourists in tunisia, egyptian soldiers in the sinai, pakistani bus travellers in karachi, worshippers during prayer in kuwait, and beheaded one person in france. the death numbers are more than statistics, they are reminders that the fight against extremism, globally and here in europe, is far from over. there is also good news: the muslim world is increasingly taking a firm stance against extremism falsely conducted in the name of islam. the eu should support such efforts by partner governments as well as ordinary citizens. however, a long-term solution depends on us solving the underlying root causes. primarily, we must achieve a comprehensive, just and enduring middle east peace. the eu must win the war against extremism right here in europe. a recent public opinion poll suggests that 46% of britons believe muslims do not share british values. this is devastating. not only is it not true, it has also fuelled the extremist narrative. eu member states must increase cooperation in pre-empting further radicalisation of our citizens. we must work within communities, addressing questions of integration and identity, as well as ensuring that there is justice and that the social and economic well-being of all europeans are adequately met. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do not think this is the best answer to this problem. what we need to do is look at the root causes of why so many people, who have their own home, their own families and their own society, are forced to leave. we need to bring about more stability and more equality in the world. it is only by tackling these issues that we will ultimately deal with the problem, not by attacking the refugees. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer.– the answer is straightforward. those who commit crime must do their time. those who are innocent should not be being punished. what we need to do is make sure we have foreign policies where we can make sure that those who are actually committing these offences do not have that opportunity. but, at the same time, we need to make sure that hard-working people are given equal rights and the opportunity to work hard.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the terrorist attack against tunisia saw the tragic loss of 39 lives, 30 of whom were my fellow british citizens, and many possibly even constituents; my condolences go to all their families and friends. this atrocity comes just a few months after a similar attack on the bardo national museum in tunis, both committed by jihadi extremists and both targeting areas with high concentrations of western tourists. this attack also reminds us of the support that traditionally secular tunisia now vitally needs. as the country that was the home of the arab spring and indeed its most successful manifestation – probably why it is now a target – the overthrow of long-time dictator ben ali in 2011 ushered in the hope for multiparty democracy in a western style. the eu and its member states now need to support the inclusive government of habib essid, allowing tunisia to flourish as a secular modern and model state for north africa and the wider middle east. with tourism accounting for 10% of tunisian gdp, such attacks are extremely damaging to the country’s prosperity and, with a very young population, a stable economy is vital to ensuring political stability and preventing radicalisation and potential islamist terrorism in the future.
mr president, i too rise to condemn the horrific terrorist attacks in tunisia, which targeted mostly european citizens – many of them british, and some from my own constituency of the west midlands. it brings back for us the pain of the 7/7 attacks, which we are commemorating in london. i would therefore like to offer my deepest condolences to the families of the victims, as well as to the tunisian people, who have seen their country come under attack for the second time in just months. with a new constitution and successful parliamentary and presidential elections, tunisia is an example for other countries in the region to follow. this is why we need to step up our engagement even further. firstly, we need to gear up counter-terrorism and security dialogue with tunisia and make sure that the state of emergency meets the high standards of international law. we also need to explore how we can offer support through the centres of excellence on terrorist prevention which are being set up by the commission. given that tourism is the second largest job creator, it is also crucial that we focus on specifying security measures for this sector for the future safety not just of europeans, but of all others in tunisia as well.
mr president, as cuba is opening up to the world, it is crucial that we take a strategic approach to relations that encompass all eu interests. so i welcome mrs mogherini’s visit to cuba in march to spur on negotiations on the fta. i hope that she and the commission have the support of all member states to push through a deal. commissioner, i was pleased to hear from you about the human rights dialogue. it is quite clear that embargoes did not really work to improve the human rights situation. i believe that perhaps the dialogue and the fda could be a tool for incremental change, given that it can be an incentive to encourage change and will require cuba to gradually liberalise fields like communications. i believe we also need to look at geopolitics, and i am sure that our strategy takes into account cuba’s relations with major players like russia and china. cuba signed an agreement with moscow last year, allowing it to re—open intelligence facilities on its territory, while beijing is one of its major trade and investment partners. given that many eu interests in this context overlap with those of the usa, is the high representative or the commissioner exploring where there is scope for collaboration with the us?
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, it is right that in this debate we put first and foremost our concern for the devastating humanitarian catastrophe occurring today in yemen. the united nations declared its highest level of humanitarian emergency, with over 80% of the country’s population in need of assistance. prior to the conflict, more than one-third of the population – some 11.5 million people – suffered from food insecurity. today, two million more have joined the starving. the un envoy said the country is now just one step away from famine. it is a crisis for children, in which 1.8 million have lost access to education and one in three fighters are children. so our resolution makes the case for a humanitarian pause, backing the un secretary—general and marking the observance of ramadan. my group stands with all who condemn violence on all sides – from the houthis, al-qaida and daesh/isis. for us, however, this includes concerns about the humanitarian consequences of the bombing and of the blockade by the saudi-led coalition. regarding the request for military intervention from former president hadi – someone whose term-of-office has expired and who had explicitly resigned – was that request more legitimate than the request of former president yanukovych in a different sphere? in any case, that request to the security council was based on un charter article 51, which concerns the defence of the country under external attack, and that cannot make it legal in this case. our resolution calls on all regional actors to contribute to a return to stability. we call for an inclusive political process, which ends the polarisation of peoples based on religious sectarianism. our resolution also understands that development must play an important role in what is the arab world’s most impoverished country, if conflict resolution is to succeed in the long term. but this resolution is very much about the short term: to stop the targeting of civilians, to halt and then end the violence, to support all efforts towards a negotiated political solution, and to bring humanitarian relief in order to end the hunger and the suffering.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, yemen is an example of the arab spring gone badly wrong after the 2011 uprisings against the then president, ali abdullah saleh, and of a poor country caught up in a proxy war between iran militarily supporting fellow shia houthis and sunni saudi arabia supporting the ousted government of president hadi, now exiled to riyadh. saudi arabia has intervened militarily with air power against the houthi advances on aden, and they in turn are supported by the previously ousted strong man, president saleh. the country has become a humanitarian disaster zone, with more than 3 000 people killed, more than half of them civilians, including women and children, as a result of the saudi bombing campaign aimed at driving back the insurgents and restoring the elected, legitimate hadi government. there have been allegations of gross violations of international humanitarian laws by all sides. matters are further complicated by piracy in the gulf of aden, and al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula, active in many parts of the country. the eu has little role beyond supporting humanitarian aid; and of course i call, on behalf of my group, on all sides to return to the negotiating table and desist from further hostilities. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr tannock, thank you for accepting my blue card. despite our obvious political differences, will you join me in supporting a cause that i know we are both very keen on? that is re-recognition for somaliland – a stable country across the other side of the gulf of aden. will you also join me in paying tribute to the great work that the somalilanders are doing – specifically in the port of berbera – in helping refugees who have fled from southern yemen?
blue-card answer.– thank you very much, mr carver, because yes indeed, i think that somaliland does deserve re-recognition. it has been democratic, it has upheld the rule of law and it is a stable polity which has fought piracy and combated islamist terrorism. so for all those reasons, and the historical fact that it was once a british protectorate called british somaliland and is entitled under the un charter and traditions to be an independent state, there is a very strong case to be made. but of course the debate today is not about somaliland per se, although that is dear to my heart. the debate today is about what is happening in yemen, and there has been, of course, a humanitarian crisis and disaster, as i have said in my speech, and many of the refugees have fled across the gulf of aden to somaliland, to the port of berbera, where i know the government in hargeisa are doing their utmost possible to rehouse and accommodate this influx of refugees. but yes, thank you to the government of somaliland for doing that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i very much appreciated the commissioner’s comments about the long-term political solution being the only way that we can resolve the situation in yemen. we cannot allow it to become a forgotten conflict because the turmoil, as colleagues have said, only helps daesh and extremists and creates the perfect breeding ground for them. this motion focused on what must be done in the short-term to ensure that humanitarian efforts are able to proceed, and i very much endorse comments about a pause being necessary in the fighting to allow humanitarian efforts to go forward. but we must also scrutinise the saudi-led coalition, and we must scrutinise the actions of it, not least because many of our member state governments – not least the united kingdom – are assisting in every way possible, short of actual military intervention. the tactics are questionable; the legality of the action is also debatable; and we must ensure that this remains scrutinised by us, because we cannot allow this to simply play out while we watch from the sidelines and the people of yemen continue to suffer.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, two weeks ago i hosted an event in brussels with a delegation from the southern movement, an umbrella group bringing together the different political parties seeking an effective split, returning to the post yemeni unification borders before 1990. the main speaker was mr al-jifri, a former south yemeni vice-president, who gave a detailed update of the tragic situation on the ground. he spoke passionately about the increasing humanitarian crisis, the fact that the international aid reaching yemen is being distributed through hodeidah port in the north, whilst aden port in the south literally misses the boat. he also spoke of the increasing casualties and underlined how yemen’s infrastructure has been completely obliterated. the pressing issue that must be addressed across the globe is the need for a correct diplomatic approach towards achieving a credible ceasefire so that the tragic humanitarian crisis that my colleagues across the house spoke about can be addressed as a matter of priority. i was astounded to learn of another issue that needs addressing urgently, and that is how someone who is taking part in the official dialogue might not actually be representing the very organisations that they claim to speak on behalf of. certainly the southern movement delegates who attended my event left me with the distinct impression that they were currently unrepresented and that incorrect actors are currently at the table, incorrectly claiming to act for them. now more than ever, the world has regrettably to accept the increasing divide across the middle east between sunni and shia islam. yemen today is a tragic example of this. accordingly, should not the international community honestly consider whether a unified yemen is a viable long-term solution? i genuinely believe that the possibility of eventually – and i say eventually – dividing yemen through its pre-unification borders is an option worth proper consideration. have we learned nothing from the mistakes made a century ago by the sykes-picot agreement?
mr president, a hundred days into the conflict, the security and humanitarian situation in yemen is further deteriorating. i regret all loss of life in this conflict. i am concerned that violence has the potential to turn into a regional, sectarian conflict. should this happen, it will further destabilise the middle east and threaten europe’s own security and economic interests. the eu, a champion of democracy and human rights, has the moral responsibility to help yemen and its people. first, we need to end the violence, a humanitarian ceasefire to deliver aid to 80% of yemen’s population; but the eu can only do so much. i therefore call on the regional powers, saudi arabia and iran in particular, to show true leadership by assuming responsibility for the well-being of all yemeni citizens. weak governance, corruption, unemployment and unlimited social services have all been underlying causes of conflict in yemen. the eu should use its international experience in institution-building and democratisation to train a new yemeni government that would fairly represent and effectively govern all its citizens.
madam president, when we look back at 2014, we see a year of increasing instability across the world. we see human rights abuses by isis. we see actions by the north korean government with a level of nastiness and a lack of respect for humanity which is frankly terrifying. we see cases like that of raif badawi, which is still going on today. let us not impose a western mindset upon other the countries, though, and go too far in looking at issues which go beyond human rights, but to our own personal views; and perhaps that is part of the failures that we have seen in terms of interventions in iraq. i wonder whether, when we in the european union seek to politicise trade as a matter of course, we are guilty of doing exactly that. i may be a ukip mep; i may not believe that these institutions and structures here are the right ones. but in a world which seems increasingly unstable, i can at least say that i agree that countries must work together in a spirit of cooperation, even though i do not believe these institutions are fit for purpose.
madam president, the situation in the middle east is untenable, and exactly one year ago today we witnessed, every minute of every hour of every day therein, for a few weeks, an onslaught on gaza. 1 500 people were killed, including 500 little boys and little girls – exactly one year ago today. and okay, mogherini is not here, and it would be better if she was, but we knew days ago that that was going to be the case. surely as meps we have a job to do. commissioner hahn is quite capable and quite competent of doing what needs to be done, and as meps, we get paid well enough to do our job. therefore we should be having this debate tonight, and i would ask meps to do the right thing – the decent thing – on this terrible anniversary that we are all reflecting on and to have the debate today, because unfortunately, in september i believe we will be back, because israel, for instance, will violate international law and in september we will be back, having another debate.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, firstly, we regret the absence tonight of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ms mogherini – though for the very best of reasons, because we can remain hopeful that a comprehensive nuclear deal may be struck with iran this week, something which could help the country start to re-engage with us in europe and others in the international community, and which can play an important role in advancing security for the region as a whole. of course any deal must be fair, credible and fully verifiable. but this is a week where we also hope there may be genuine progress in another set of long-standing negotiations which at times had seemed intractable: the reconciliation talks in libya. what marks both sets of negotiations is the real human suffering caused by lack of agreement, and the huge political obstacles existing which obstruct agreements from being achieved. if they are – and tonight’s debate must encourage that – it will be a victory for patient diplomacy, where i am proud that the european union is playing the leading role in both cases. in a third conflict in the region between israel and palestine – seemingly the most intractable of all – this parliament should welcome and encourage the more active role in political diplomacy which the high representative is prepared to play there. i look forward to the debate with her in september. vincent peillon’s excellent report recognises that there are issues of mistrust and resentment about europe in the region, based on history and on sometimes justified criticism of double standards against european countries ourselves. we have to impress on the countries of the middle east and north africa, and their populations, that europe does not want to return to colonialism. we have to learn lessons by being consistent in our support of respect for democracy and for human rights amongst the countries, despite any considerations of alliance. when i sit in this chamber and listen to statements about migration and terrorism, these are proper concerns. but we need to articulate them in a way which shows the countries of the region that we want to support peace, prosperity and development for them and their peoples, in their own interest first and not just through the prism of managing issues which are problems to us. our response to the mediterranean refugee crisis is a true test of our good intent in that respect. the new phenomenon of isis-daesh is a huge and terrible concern. i add my own personal condolences for the deaths of tourists in tunisia who came from my own country, great britain, but also from fellow european nations belgium, germany, and ireland too. we need a better security response. territorial advances against isis in syria and iraq are important if they are to be denied the claim of statehood which their name of so-called ‘islamic state’ implies. we have to be careful in our own words and actions not to add to the narrative of extremism – which is ultimately self-defeating – by generating radicalisation rather than diminishing it. for example, at parliament’s middle east and north african working group, which i am proud to chair, the european external action service recently told us that reports that terrorists were entering europe under the cover of being refugees are not supported by one shred of evidence. let us learn by what i started with – the value of patient diplomacy – rather than ramping up the rhetoric as we deal with the countries of this region. finally, whether in yemen, which we were discussing earlier, or in libya, which i have already referred to, and in several other countries, we have to recognise that religious sectarianism is a huge cause of conflict and instability. one thing we must do, as europe, is to engage with political islam – not to agree with them, but to talk with those who represent political islam – if we are truly to have a dialogue to pursue the common interests of our continent and theirs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, there is much to admire in this report, and i would add my own congratulations to mr peillon and his team for some genuinely good cross-party work on this. our group is broadly supportive and, as rapporteur for my group, i am very pleased to see that our wording on social injustice and inequality, and on how that is a breeding ground for radicalisation, is included, as are security, instability and corruption and how they interplay. the wording on the israeli settlements and their malign influence within the wider region is also included. the all-out oppression of the assad regime within syria, the use of drones, the strategic importance of the nile and the need to accelerate human rights in the eu – league of arab states dialogue, is, we think, all very positive wording. that is not to say that we are entirely satisfied. this is a report about the security challenges in the wider region, yet it does focus very much on daesh – mentioning daesh 21 times. daesh is, of course, a dreadful organisation, but it is one organisation amongst many in a very complex picture. often it is as much a symptom as a cause. i would personally like to see much more vocal criticism of israel’s actions in the region, given that it is a recruiting sergeant for radicalisation. there are forces of progress within israel, and we must reach out to them and assist them in their efforts to have a constructive debate within israel and with palestine. the eu could play a leading role in that, but we are not. we also call, in the report, on some states to refrain from exporting terrorism. i am not sure that is helpful language; i am not sure it adds much value either. we also call for the eu to provide a safe haven for christians, in particular from the middle east, in the eu. if we are trying to criticise sectarianism, we should refrain from it ourselves. the plight of any refugee, regardless of their ethnicity or their religion, is equally dreadful. but all in all, we are satisfied with this report. i think it is a good contribution to a very complex situation, and i congratulate the rapporteur for his work.
blue-card question.– mr lopez, you have done a good job of summing up the problems that we face with isis, as many have already done in this chamber this evening. it is a question where we hear a lot about the problems, but very little in terms of specific solutions. you said yourself that what we are doing now is not enough. so what do we do? do we have more military intervention, given the problems that were caused in iraq and in afghanistan previously? we cannot apply sanctions to these countries. what is your proposal for action here?
madam president, i have no doubt that mr peillon has put a lot of effort into this report, but it seems to be a ‘catch-all’ for every possible difficulty, tension and crisis across a vast region. many of these countries are unrelated in the nature of the problems that they face. the main answer for him seems to be the european union, as well as large helpings of motherhood, apple pie and blinding statements of the obvious. i seriously question the point of this sort of unfocused report and the associated hand-wringing. in any case, given the difficulties the eu is having in sorting out its own internal problems, i think a little more modesty would be useful. the eu’s main resource is money – it has been endowed by our taxpayers with over-generous financial resources. however, at the moment we are clearly not getting a good return for our money. we should try and use our resources on a more targeted and wiser basis. there i specifically pick up what was said about the middle east peace process. we have leverage on the palestinians and we should use that leverage to bring them to the negotiating table.
madam president, i find myself agreeing with my colleague and esteemed opponent, geoffrey van orden. this report seems to be extremely windy and very worthy, but i am afraid that it does not have any practical or sensible solutions to the middle east. quite frankly, i think the european union should not be involving itself in this matter. it should be left very much to the great powers and to nato, who can better deal with it. one of the things i find interesting about north africa is that the countries we have not interfered with, such as morocco, have a stable government and an emerging democracy. the more we keep out of interfering in those affairs, the better. but what we should be concentrating on is the threat from isis coming across the mediterranean from north africa. we should not be encouraging people to come across. we should try to stop that. there are far too many woolly words about people and refugees. this must be stopped for the good and safety of europe, or we will have even more problems being imported into europe itself. we should also stop arguing with russia. with russia we have a common enemy in a medieval, religious conflict which, quite frankly, we do not want to be part of. russia has a similar problem in its southern republics to the one that we have. i think we were better off cooperating with russia rather than fighting with russia. at the moment, all the european union seems to do is squabble with russia over crimea, which is not at all sensible. let us leave that out. let us be friendly with russia. let us try to make sure we do something sensible in the middle east and not carry on the sort of nonsense we have been doing up until now.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the european neighbourhood policy (enp), on the surface, claims to have aims of fostering peace, democracy and human rights in the european union’s neighbouring countries. whilst this is a noble aim, western intervention, as we already know, has hardly worked wonders in either the middle east, ukraine or north africa. the enp essentially amounts to the european union using hard-pressed taxpayers’ money to foster – or, as some might even say, buy – influence to move countries closer to european union membership. with a cost of eur 15.4 billion, might i respectfully suggest that, rather than looking outwards – and bearing in mind the current situation in greece, which we have all heard about with vested interest today in parliament – instead, the european union would do better to put its own house in order first before seeking to expand its tentacles further.
mr president, announcing the review of neighbourhood policy, high representative/vice-president mogherini said ‘our region is in flames’. in this debate, we are saying that we must not only continue trying to extinguish the flames, but we must also be better at stopping the fire from starting in the first place. it is true to say that, in the past, europe has too often made the assumption that there would be steady, if sometimes slow, trends towards modernisation, reform and democratic development in our neighbourhood. but what we have seen, whether in ukraine or in the stalled arab uprisings, are sudden shocks and reverses which require europe’s neighbourhood policy to have a much greater emphasis on and capacity for fast—moving political intervention and diplomacy. we also recognise that five of the six eastern partners are now confronted with unresolved or frozen conflicts, which require such intervention too. i support some of the principles emerging from the review. for countries which themselves choose to come closer to the eu – georgia, moldova, ukraine, tunisia and morocco – yes, let us intensify our relations in a more differentiated approach, recognising the challenges that they still face. we say we want more people-to-people contact, more public diplomacy and more civil society dialogue. frankly, we also need a sea change to massively increase this element of the policy compared to the past. ‘more for more’ is a good policy which should be maintained, but let us recognise that the incentives which we offered were insufficient. and, as we have just heard, the revised policy must also address the challenge of ‘less for less’. we need to be self-aware when we say at the same time that we want more partnership and local ownership but also that we want a better, more focused, defence of european interests and values. but i do have some fears that the journey from vilnius to riga means that this review is actually cover for reducing the ambition behind our european neighbourhood policy, and that so-called enlargement fatigue means there is a retrenchment of membership prospects for the countries in our neighbourhood. both of these dangers must be resisted. so often i hear colleagues in this chamber advocate a strong european common foreign and security policy, with europe as a global player. the truth is that there can never be true respect for europe’s global role if we cannot play a more dynamic and effective role in dealing with the problems of our very own neighbourhood. that is an argument for a more ambitious neighbourhood policy. commissioner, you will have our support if this is the choice you make. finally, we have let down those brave protesters on the maidan. there are people in that country, and across the neighbourhood, who look to us in europe. we should have the same high expectations of ourselves as those people have of us.
madam president, this week we are commemorating the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica genocide. we honour the memory of the victims and pay tribute to the fortitude of their families in seeking justice. it shames the world that it failed to protect innocent civilians. it is disappointing that the un failed to pass this resolution, especially when the international court of justice (icj), its own court, had acknowledged the genocide. lessons of the past must be learned. we renew our determination never to let forces of prejudice, hatred and evil go unchecked. while we commemorate the past, we keep our eyes firmly on the future of bosnia. reconciliation remains a fundamental objective. this path leads to justice and truth. our duty is to strengthen our efforts to promote education, remembrance and research about srebrenica and other genocides. future generations must understand the causes of such massacres and build societies based on trust, inclusivity and the celebration of diversity. we remain fully committed to bosnia and herzegovina being part of the eu, together with other western balkan nations. the european path is the best way to move forward beyond the tragedies of the past. we urge the leaders of bosnia to work together to make the country a safe and prosperous place, for this will be the lasting tribute to the srebrenica victims. our hearts and thoughts will always be with them.
madam president, on the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica massacre, it is important that this genocidal attempt against 8 000 bosnian muslim men and boys is remembered as the worst atrocity of its type since world war ii. it must never happen again. a thousand boys and men are still missing, presumed dead and buried in unmarked graves, after summary executions in cold blood by bosnian serb forces and irregular militias. the un was sadly negligent in its function to protect civilians in its designated territory. i also wish, along with other colleagues, to express my absolute shock at the russian veto of the british government’s attempt to get a srebrenica resolution through the un security council. tragedies of this type should never be a political football. has russia not learned its lessons from the katyń massacres during world war ii, when stalin lied and blamed this on the germans? surely this should not happen again either.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i find myself in a position where it has never been easier to make a one-minute speech in this chamber, because i absolutely agreed with the commission’s proposal and felt that it really was not necessary for us to make much of a change. my group believes in better regulation, and that means we do not believe in over—regulation. we believe that the commission proposal is correctly based on the legal basis of article 31 of the euratom treaty. i think parliament’s proposed amendments are inconsistent with the principle of keeping euratom as a separate organisation responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector. among the shadows during the discussions, i heard nothing to convince me that the safety of citizens would be improved by the involvement of parliament in detailed scrutiny, substance by substance. indeed, during much of the debate and particularly in the detail of many of the recitals which were decided upon, it became absolutely clear to me that many of my colleagues were motivated by a philosophical belief in the danger of nuclear energy, as opposed to any particular regard to this proposal. so my group’s position is – and will remain – that the legal basis is correct and that we support the commission’s proposal as put forward.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, shadows, and also to the committee secretariats for all the work on this dossier. i know it has not been an easy task, but i think we have a good compromise in front of us. i thank the rapporteur and others for taking on so much from the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). i think commissioner oettinger is right about the balance that we need to strike between the new digital world that we exist within and the rights of the creators of content. this is the challenge if we want to make our digital single market work effectively. so the challenge is there, and we will meet it. the key points i wanted to raise are on e-book access, the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, and text and data mining. there are still too many barriers to libraries being able to provide books in electronic format, and i hope that we will see concrete proposals from the commission later this year to try to address some of these problematic issues. publishers and libraries have been working together to seek solutions, and these discussions must continue. leading on from this, the ratification of the marrakesh treaty is no further forward than when we last discussed this in this house. the book famine, which visually impaired and blind people still face, is a clear breach of human rights. let us remind ourselves that less than 5% of the books published in europe are available in a format that is accessible. i urge member states to take action and ratify this treaty. finally, on text and data mining, which the commissioner just touched upon in his speech: currently in the uk, as you know, we have got an exemption for non-commercial purposes under the current rules. the impact this is having on research is phenomenal. what would have taken years can now literally take hours, and for scientific discoveries and historical analysis the benefits are endless. i hope that we will see a new exemption for text and data mining at eu level and an assessment about the extension of this for commercial purposes too.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, my thanks to the rapporteur and to everybody who worked on this report. ms reda’s report, as we all know, reviewed the 2001 information society directive and as such, or perhaps not as such, it has achieved some notoriety. for an own-initiative report of this kind it has certainly received more attention than perhaps we would have expected. but the report, as a result of that, is both wide-ranging and forward-looking. we had lengthy negotiations amongst all the political groups in the committee on legal affairs, and i believe – and i think my colleagues also believe – that we did eventually achieve a fair balance between the competing interest groups – between consumers and creators. and it is not either consumers or creators: both need to be taken into consideration and both need to be in the reforms that eventually come forward for copyright. but my focus, and i believe the focus of the socialist and democrat group, has always been on creators – to give creators fair remuneration, to make sure that they are adequately paid. because if they are not, we will not have music as we know it, we will not have much in the way of television and radio, and we will have very few new books. this is really a matter for our culture across the european union, and we need to see it in that light. that is why i welcome very much what the commissioner said earlier. i do not believe, as ms reda said, that we have missed an opportunity. i think what this report, as amended by the committee, does is to put forward constructive proposals which i very much hope the commission will take on board. and although, of course, we would eventually like to see pan-european laws, at the moment we simply have to take account of member states’ cultural diversity and we too must ensure that diversity is carried out. one final word on freedom of panorama. i urge you all to vote to delete the whole of paragraph 46 tomorrow because if we do that, with one press of our button in the european parliament, it will mean that photographers across europe can safely continue to press their buttons.
blue-card question.– mr zwiefka, thank you very much for your contribution. would you kindly just provide some further details as far as the right of panorama is concerned? it is of course right that – providing we deal with the voting in the way that we feel the large groups in this house are about to – we will arrive at a situation where the national positions of each of our member states remain protected, so that they can deal with that in the way that they feel is appropriate. that is the best way to proceed.
madam president, we do need to update copyright for the digital age, and people expect to be able to take their music, films and books with them when they travel. consumers should be able to access legally-available content and know when they buy it how portable it is. but portability must not be an excuse for piracy – 8 million people work in the creative sector and they should be paid properly. therefore, exemptions need to be clear and targeted. text and data mining has brought huge benefits for science and research in the non-commercial sector in my member state, and there are some interesting examples of e-lending in rural areas. so perhaps the commissioner could build on the experience in the countries that are doing this in his work. in the uk and in other countries, the right to take pictures in public places of public buildings is a cherished freedom and an eu limitation is not appropriate. incidentally, i would like to say to ms niebler that we do not need an internet tax across europe either.
madam president, when i see harmonisation in this place, it means one thing: making the free less free. you tried it once with the anti-counterfeit trade agreement, and you are trying it again with paragraph 46 to restrict the rights of panorama. i have had hundreds of emails and letters from graphic designers, web designers, professional photographers, who fear for their livelihoods. they fear that the regulations coming out of this place are going to mean that their jobs are redundant. but my message to those people is not to listen to the blank reassurances from this chamber. they have their chance to defend their interests, and that comes when our referendum comes. they can vote ‘no’. they can vote to leave this place and have a government at westminster – a government they can vote out, instead of the commissioners that they did not vote for – deciding their laws. we can break free of this place. my appeal to those people who have written to me and to every single british mep is: defend your interests, vote ‘no’, let us leave the european union and take back control.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her good work and also for the good cooperation that we had. i am just sad that the committee on legal affairs (juri) took the wrong approach to this report. banning the freedom of panorama exclusion, for example, was exactly the wrong way to look at the digital single market. i am glad that the groups and the author have agreed now to remove it, but i have huge concerns that the committee thought it was a good idea in the first place. it shows that there is little understanding of the immense changes that the digital environment is bringing to consumers, users, right holders and businesses. that is not the only problem. the call to reopen the e-commerce directive is also unwelcome, as is the very wide educational exemption, the study into the pan-european licence and the amendment for a new internet tax. but my final point is on geo-blocking. one of europe’s biggest sporting events is taking place right now: it is the ashes cricket series between england and australia, and it has a global audience of billions. yet if you bought access to watch this in the uk, you are blocked from accessing it here in france or on holiday in spain, even though the right to work is there. i do not want a pan-eu licence, but i want portability of legally-bought content. however, on this, as in so many other areas, the report simply does not recognise how the modern digital market works.
in writing.– the cultural and creative sector accounts for up to 4.5% of the eu gdp and gives work to 8.5 million people, meaning it does not just contribute to cultural development and diversity but is also crucial for the real economy. yet in many parts of the creative sector, people still do not receive fair pay for their work. half a million performers across the eu are not fairly rewarded when their performances are exploited via online on-demand services, and many of them are in too weak a position to negotiate better terms. technology has advanced, but copyright is still stuck in the past. i urge the commission to ensure that authors and performers enjoy an unwaivable right to remuneration when their products become available on digital platforms, in order to safeguard the important role they play both in terms of culture and education and for the real economy.
mr president, i just want to ask you how that decision stands against the decision taken on the spot yesterday to have a minute’s silence?
mr president, this is just a procedural issue after yesterday’s explanation of votes. could the president explain what will happen after this debate with yesterday’s explanation of votes and today’s explanation of votes? could you explain what will go on, please?
mr president, i want to propose that we take the reda report next and that all other votes are postponed until september. with your permission, i would like to explain why. it is unreasonable for you to have 25 minutes of voting on a tuesday and to have scheduled two hours on a thursday of own initiative reports and resolutions, none of which are time-critical. mr president, the services should arrange our voting more carefully. we should have more on a tuesday and less on a thursday. i therefore propose that we take the reda report next and postpone the rest until september. (applause)
mr president, having chaired the negotiations between the groups on this matter, it is a great shame that we walked away from that negotiating table on monday night, with the s&d and epp both agreeing that they were substantially there with a joint text, and then one group refusing to sign that deal. so, having been there, i do not know what more will be gained by coming back in september.
mr president, i would like to add at the end of this paragraph: ‘believes that, where artists’ and performers’ exclusive making-available rights are transferred, there should be an unwaivable right to remuneration subject to collective management.’ essentially this is so that artists and performers can actually receive remuneration when their content, which would usually be music, is streamed over the internet.
mr president, yesterday’s vote was not for or against ttip; that vote will only come when the negotiations conclude. this was our chance to show what we really think about ttip, and to tell the public who filled our inboxes with their concerns how we will respond to them in ttip. this is the best tool to influence the negotiations, and this week we have sent a clear signal that we want a good ttip which excludes our public services, however they are provided, organised or financed (including the nhs), which upholds and strengthens worker rights and our environmental standards and which ensures democratic scrutiny. for labour meps, this can only be guaranteed with full rejection of separate courts and rights for foreign investors to sue governments. that was not achieved yesterday, and therefore labour meps, including myself, voted against the resolution and will continue to defend democracy and the right to regulate.
mr president, unlike most of the people who have just spoken, i have no problems at all with the principle of free trade. i think it has been the greatest advance of the last half-century. it has raised millions of people throughout the world in agrarian, as well as developed, economies. it has cut global poverty – extreme poverty – by two-thirds since 1990. but ttip is not only about free trade. part of it will involve uncontroversially good things like mutual product recognition. but it also allows corporations to erect barriers to entry to take control of the regulatory regime in order to make life harder for their smaller rivals – and therefore, by implication, for consumers. i do have to say one thing, though, to opponents of ttip on the left of this chamber. the things that they are objecting to – the resolution of disputes mechanism, the contracting-out of public services – are not introduced by ttip: they are intrinsic properties of the european union. you should be honest about the origin of what it is you do not like. it is not something that suddenly becomes objectionable because it involves the united states. if you have a democratic objection – and i can see why you might – then it is really the entire eu you have your problem with.
mr president, this has all been a bit of a mess from start to finish, has it not? we had the vote cancelled last time because of the sheer number of amendments. we then cancelled the four-hour debate, rescheduled it for a busier time, squashed it into an unrealistic timescale and prevented any interaction between speakers. then we still voted on the same amendments, because that pretext was no more than an excuse to stifle debate. millions of european citizens made their voices heard on ttip and we chose in this place to squash debate rather than hold it. i believe that is a disgrace. we then watched as a string of amendments to make the text less bad were voted down. we saw the amendments to remove isds ignored altogether, because the president of parliament chose to ignore the rules and to consider a different amendment first. well, welcome to the european union. if you want to know why ukip believes these structures are not fit for purpose, this behaviour here is not the exception but, sadly, the rule. i would vote for free trade but ttip is not free trade. it is a corporatist trade deal, and that is why i voted no.
mr president, emotions have been running high over the lange report – understandably, because ttip has the ability to transform our economies. whether the transformation will be for better or for worse will depend on whether the concerns of the citizens and the smes are taken into account. this report is about setting clear guidelines for the commission on the negotiations, and better effort should have been made to explain this to the public. whilst i welcome the overwhelming engagement shown by many of my constituents, many of them thought we were actually voting on the final deal. we are still many miles away from that. let us be clear. it has always been a priority for me to ensure key protections on public services, labour and environmental safeguards, and clear language that dismisses the use of private courts for investment disputes. ttip offers an opportunity to set global standards on health, labour and environment and to set them high.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn fein’s position that the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership being negotiated by the eu and us will have disastrous consequences for democracy, the environment, labour rights and public services. i voted in favour of several amendments tabled by my group, the gue/ngl, and the greens. these ranged from outright rejection of the ttip project to amendments aimed at protecting workers’ rights, public services, and the environment. on the critical issue of the isds – investor-state dispute settlement – there were two key compromise amendments, 117 (proposed by rapporteur lange) and 118 (proposed by the greens). i voted against amendment 117 and in favour of amendment 118. amendment 117 aims to create a ‘new’ isds along the lines of eu trade commissioner cecilia malmström’s recent proposal, which includes public hearings and an appeals mechanism. the proposal still retained the fundamental element of investors being able to sue states over public policy. the greens’ compromise amendment calls on the commission to reject the inclusion of isds in ttip as other remedies are already available.
in writing. ‒ the lange report on ttip is an own-initiative report that has no legislative power whatsoever. it is merely a wish list of how the committee on international trade would like to amend ttip. i promised my constituents that i would vote against ttip on the basis that trade policy should be decided by our own democratic government and not the european union. i also promised to vote to exclude the isds mechanism from ttip. the voting list on the report contained about 126 separate votes. i did not vote on these amendments because i do not wish to be party to an alternative version of ttip suggested by parliament when i do not accept the eu’s democratic legitimacy to legislate on this or any other matter in the first place. i would have voted on amendments 40 and 27 to exclude isds but martin schulz, president of the european parliament, allowed an amendment to be voted on first that deleted these amendments from the voting list – despite protests from members present. therefore no meps were able to vote to exclude isds, but i did vote against the report as a whole in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the isds, any threat to public services, and the suggestion that this partnership will tip the scales still further towards big business. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets out a number of red lines for parliament ahead of the resumption of negotiations on the possible ttip agreement. the red lines make it clear that parliament will not accept any threats to public services nor to regulatory standards, but it is not sufficiently clear in opposing the proposed isds privileged court for foreign investors, hence the negative vote of labour meps.
in writing. ‒ after weeks of parliamentary ping-pong i am glad to be able to vote on ttip. i have been clear from the start, isds needs to be modernized and improved to ensure that scottish public services are protected and environmental standards maintained. the commission’s commitment to this is encouraging, and i look forward to continued negotiations for an ambitious trade deal for scottish small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on ttip because it is not in the interests of wales. this trade agreement will have a huge impact yet there has not been a proper public debate on it. some of the proposals threaten, rather than enhance, our democracy as well as our standards and values. i am in favour of trade agreements between equals which are of benefit to both, but ttip is not that. i am pleased that many thousands of constituents contacted me urging me to vote against isds and ttip. i am disappointed that the final report includes a form of isds under another name, which means the commission will press ahead with its proposals. i will continue to campaign on ttip and i have urged my constituents to keep lobbying to protect our services and our standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament’s recommendations on ttip. i recognise that many of my constituents have fears over the possible outcomes of this trade deal. however, free trade is something that we can all benefit from. although these recommendations are not as ambitious as the ecr initially hoped for, the important core message of the removal of barriers to trade and investment remains.
in writing. ‒ i, along with fellow labour meps, voted to protect the nhs, public services, workers’ rights and environmental standards in this vote on the ttip negotiations. however, we voted against the inclusion of the compromise on investor state dispute settlement (isds), which enables companies to sue governments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as a whole because i do not believe that the eu should be negotiating trade deals on behalf of the uk. i am absent from some roll call votes (rcvs) because i did not want to ʽimproveʼ legislation i fundamentally disagree with: i want it to be deleted. at the same time i was not prepared to vote in favour of any of the clauses which allow us companies to interfere in the nhs, which ukip believes should be free at the point of access and not be exploited by benefit tourism.
in writing. ‒ the supposed compromise text on isds retains the unacceptable features of isds, namely the establishment of a parallel system of justice for large-scale investors. the socialist group in this house have behaved shamefully and they are very much mistaken if they believe that the citizens of europe will accept their proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report due to the inclusion of isds in the text, which enables companies to sue governments.
in writing. ‒ right from the start i have outlined that the ttip process should be transparent and that it is paramount that our public services are not opened up to multinational private interests. the compromise which i voted for explicitly calls the negotiators to go back to the drawing board with investor protection – it removes isds and calls for a reformed process. it also calls explicitly for protection of our public services. the debate on ttip has moved on considerably over the past six months. thanks to pressure from the public and from meps, the parliament has now recommended against isds as we once knew it. but the extremely important thing to remember is that this vote is not on ttip – no final deal is close to being agreed. it is a vote on the parliament’s recommendations to the negotiators. if or when a final deal is agreed, it has to be ratified by 28 member states and by the european parliament. if that final deal risks dismantling our nhs, i will not be voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ along with fellow labour meps, i voted to protect the nhs, public services, workers’ rights and environmental standards in today’s ttip vote. however, we voted against the compromise inclusion of isds (investor-state dispute settlement), which enables companies to sue governments.
in writing. ‒ labour meps took the decision to vote against the report as a whole due to it not explicitly rejecting isds.
in writing. ‒ huge numbers of constituents have been in touch with me regarding today’s vote. given the volume of emails i have received, it has unfortunately not been possible to respond individually to everyone. therefore, i would like to take this opportunity to clarify my position and reassure those who contacted me that their concerns have been taken into account. i am extremely pleased to see the european parliament give its clear backing to the ttip negotiations. an ambitious transatlantic trade agreement would provide a huge boost to our economy and deliver real benefits for businesses of all sizes, making it easier for them to export and giving them access to a marketplace of 300 million us consumers. ttip, with adequate safeguards for public services, will not just be good news for businesses, it will also deliver greater choice of products and savings for consumers, without lowering standards. investor protection is a necessary component of all trade deals, and i welcome the agreement reached that ttip should be accompanied by a suitably reformed and highly transparent investor protection mechanism. i hope that with parliament’s support for ttip now officially on record, a swift and successful conclusion of the negotiations can be reached.
in writing. ‒ there has been much scare-mongering by those on the extremes of either side of this house to the discredit of a deal that would be hugely beneficial to the uk and to europe. trade between the us and eu member states is substantial and the economic benefits of a free trade agreement would be a further boost, creating the largest free trade area in the world. many of the aspects of the agreement that have been attacked, isds being a prime example, are common features of most trade agreements and there to protect investors. they are not there to allow investors to privatise the nhs by stealth as has been disingenuously claimed by critics. the immediate economic benefit to the uk of the agreement is estimated to be anywhere in the region of ukp 4-10 billion. i am pleased to have voted in favour of today’s report and would encourage my constituents with concerns to look at the details of this agreement and not be misled by the myths being peddled by the likes of ukip who, as a supposedly free-market, atlanticist party, are opposing this deal for cynical political gain.
in writing. ‒ there are many issues that alarm me about ttip, beyond the ‘new’ system proposed to replace isds, which still provides for a separate, parallel legal framework solely for investors. another major concern that prompted me to vote against the recommendations to the commission on the ttip negotiations is regulatory cooperation, which mainly aims to reduce trade barriers in the form of differing laws, regulations and standards. many of these differences have been adopted by countries to pursue policy goals unrelated to trade, such as the protection of the environment, public health and consumers. under ttip these democratic decisions are simply known as ‘non-tariff barriers to trade’ (ntbs). the resolution failed to convince me that appropriate measures will be taken to ensure that ttip will not put downward pressure on a host of important regulations, thereby eroding hard-won social, environmental and health protections. as vice-chair of the european parliament’s animal welfare intergroup, i am also worried about the threat ttip poses to animal rights and protection. as the eu’s animal welfare regulations are much more advanced than those of the us, i fear that another negative result of reduced ntbs would be the lowering or undermining of standards that regulate animal welfare.
in writing. – if we want europe to remain at the forefront of global trade for the next decades, deals such as ttip are essential. the reduction of trade barriers will benefit all parts of the supply chain as well as consumers. across europe citizens will see a reduction in costs as well as a simultaneous boost to the economy. smes, which are crucial to our economic recovery, will particularly benefit from the removal of red tape. despite the political manoeuvrings of the left it was a triumph for democracy that this vote occurred in an appropriate timeframe and without further delays. for such a landmark deal, reform of the investor protection mechanism was the most appropriate course of action as it is still affording european businesses protection from discrimination as well as allowing governments to regulate as they deem suitable and in the interest of their citizens. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution and hope that such a decisive result in the european parliament gives the ttip negotiations fresh impetus. it is worrying to see that ukip has now joined the french national front, the communists and greens in their instinctive anti-americanism and antipathy to so-called ‘big business’.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues i voted against this resolution because labour meps wanted to rule out isds from ttip. this, unfortunately, did not get the support of a majority of tory and right-wing meps. therefore as the agreement included isds, we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this was not a vote on ttip itself but on parliament’s opinion. meps cannot start or stop trade negotiations; we can only approve or reject ttip once negotiations are concluded. this resolution is our best tool to influence the negotiations. today we have sent a clear warning: we can only accept ttip if certain conditions are met. labour meps voted to reject the inclusion of any public service in ttip, regardless of how they are funded or organised, and to protect workers’ rights, environmental standards and food safety. we also voted to rule out isds (investor-state dispute settlement), which enables companies to sue governments, from ttip, though this did not get the support of a majority of meps.
in writing. ‒ it is customary for ukip meps to vote against such protocols, as we opposed the agreements themselves at the time.
in writing. ‒ it is customary for ukip meps to vote against such protocols, as we opposed the agreements themselves at the time.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical measure taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu in july 2013. members are asked to give their consent to the conclusion of the protocol between the two parties in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the vajgl report, given it concerns a simple recommendation amending existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a simple and non-controversial recommendation amending existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am against any treaty that facilitates the expansion of the european union. given that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has already been identified as a potential member state, and this report encourages increasing the european union’s legal relationship with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is a simple and non-controversial recommendation simply amending existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation giving consent for the protocol to the stabilisation and accession agreement between the ec and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation as it was simply to amend existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ it is customary for ukip meps to vote against such protocols, as we opposed the agreements themselves at the time.
in writing. ‒ it is customary for ukip meps to vote against such protocols, as we opposed the agreements themselves at the time.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical measure taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu in july 2013. members are asked to give their consent to the conclusion of the protocol between the two parties in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mcallister report given it concerns a recommendation simply amending existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mcallister report as it is a simple and non-controversial recommendation amending existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am against any treaty that facilitates the expansion of the european union. given serbia has already been identified as a potential member state, and this report encourages increasing the european union’s legal relationship with serbia, i have therefore i have voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is a simple and non-controversial recommendation simply amending existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation giving consent for the protocol to the stabilisation and accession agreement between the ec and the republic of serbia to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i also supported this recommendation as it was simply to amend existing agreements to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure because of the impact upon the eu budget, and therefore on taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure because of the impact upon the eu budget, and therefore on taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ this technical measure is to renew the eu’s scientific and technological cooperation agreement with india for a further five years having previously been renewed in 2009.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the buzek report given the a renewal of our agreement on scientific and technological cooperation is an important instrument that adds to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the european community and the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which is a renewal of a previous agreement and adds to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the european community and the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ india is scotland’s second biggest international market for further and higher education students and the scottish government’s india plan specifically encourages cooperation in science and technology. the renewal of this agreement is important for both scotland and the wider eu and i was happy to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which is a renewal of a previous agreement and adds to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the european community and the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which is a renewal of a previous agreement and adds to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the european community and the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical measure which renews the eu’s scientific and technological cooperation agreement with india for a further five years, having previously been renewed in 2009.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure because of the impact upon the eu budget, and therefore on taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure because of the impact upon the eu budget, and therefore on taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ this agreement sets in place rules to enable the faroe islands to participate in the eu’s research and innovation programme, horizon 2020, as an associated country. as part of the agreement provisions will be established to enable joint meetings, visits and exchanges of research workers, engineers and technicians as well as participation of experts in seminars and workshops.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the buzek report as i believe it will add to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the eu and the faroe islands. i welcome that this agreement allows for closer cooperation with the faroes in the area of research and innovation and provides the faroes with the possibility of benefiting from and contributing to the development of research and innovation in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it will greatly add to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the eu and the faroe islands. this agreement allows for closer cooperation with the faroes in the area of research and innovation and provides the faroes with the possibility of benefiting from and contributing to the development of research and innovation in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and welcome the faroe islands’ continued cooperation with the eu in the field of research and development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it will greatly add to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the eu and the faroe islands. this agreement allows for closer cooperation with the faroes in the area of research and innovation and provides the faroes with the possibility of benefiting from and contributing to the development of research and innovation in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it will greatly add to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the eu and the faroe islands. this agreement allows for closer cooperation with the faroes in the area of research and innovation and provides the faroes with the possibility of benefiting from and contributing to the development of research and innovation in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it will greatly add to the development of scientific progress and the exchange of knowledge and ideas between the eu and the faroe islands. this agreement allows for closer cooperation with the faroes in the area of research and innovation and provides the faroes with the possibility of benefiting from and contributing to the development of research and innovation in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which sets in place rules to enable the faroe islands to participate in the eu’s research and innovation programme horizon 2020 as an associated country, establishing provisions to enable joint meetings, visits and exchanges of research workers, engineers and technicians, as well as participation of experts in seminars and workshops.
mr president, the gap between theory and practice is turning into a yawning chasm. we have had a record voting session, and here we are now talking about shareholder rights and corporate governance and ignoring the crisis that we have created with our own policies – a crisis which we are now exacerbating by feeding the patient more of the medicine that sickened him in the first place. in all the hours of debate in this chamber, one question was never asked: how do you help a stricken country in greece’s situation by forcing more loans on it? this is not about the eu bailing out greece, this is about greek taxpayers bailing out the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this measure because:1. it is legislative, and i vote against eu legislation in general;2. this is a matter best suited to the united kingdom;3. it interferes with the free market;4. of the implications for company competitiveness;5. of the regulatory burden imposed;6. this moves towards harmonisation and eu companies legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this measure because:1. it is legislative, and i vote against eu legislation in general;2. this is a matter best suited to the united kingdom;3. it interferes with the free market;4. of the implications for company competitiveness;5. of the regulatory burden imposed;6. this moves towards harmonisation and eu companies legislation.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the cofferati report, because it is high time we took decisive steps to clamp down on tax havens once and for all. in this context it is crucial we introduce country-by-country reporting (cbcr) on taxes paid for large and listed companies, demanding of multinationals to break their information down by country of operation so that citizens and authorities can see where large companies actually pay their taxes.
in writing. ‒ i along with my colleagues in the socialist and democrat group voted in favour of this report. shareholders should be able to know where their companies make profits and crucially where taxes are paid. in order to have certainty that the company is paying its correct share of tax, shareholders need to understand the health and the prospects of the company they are investing in. as such, public country-by-country reporting for major international companies would represent an important step forward.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that we must ensure better participation of shareholders in the governance of their companies. i firmly believe this will lead to a more sustainable and long-term focus, as well as increased accountability of directors to those who choose to invest. shareholders should be able to know where their companies make profits and, crucially, where they pay their taxes. in order to have certainty that the company is paying its correct share of tax, shareholders need to understand the health and the prospects of the company they are investing in. for this reason, public ‘country-by-country’ reporting for major international companies would represent an important step forward.
in writing. ‒ this house has today voted in favour of greater transparency in tax affairs of large companies. the member states must take heed of this vote and i trust that this will be reflected in the outcome of the trialogue negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour meps believe multinationals should pay their fair share. i support eu plans for businesses to publicly report the taxes they pay in each country they operate in. boosting transparency will help prevent tax dodging.
in writing. ‒ alongside my fellow labour meps i today backed country-by-country reporting to help end corporate tax dodging, ensuring businesses publically report the taxes they pay in each country they operate in. multinationals should pay their fair share. this report will help boost transparency and prevent tax dodging.
in writing. ‒ with my fellow socialist meps i voted in favour of this report because the inclusion of an amendment enables shareholders to vote at least every three years on a company’s remuneration policy for directors. the policy should say what the criteria are for, fixed and variable remuneration, including all bonuses and benefits. however, after the vote, there is now no specific requirement that the remuneration policy has an upper limit, but the effect is to allow shareholders to create one.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted for this directive because it aims to improve corporate governance in the eu after risky investments led to the financial crisis. the report will make it easier for shareholders to monitor the companies they invest in, and to encourage long-term investment rather than short term risk. it also calls for country-by-country reporting of tax payments, meaning that multinationals would break their information down by country of operation – including tax havens – so that citizens and authorities can see where large companies pay their taxes.
in writing. ‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure. its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved. the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price. the intention of the market stability reserve is to reduce the number of allowances in the market if there are too many and introduce new ones in the event of a shortage. it is a vital but insufficient step to improving this deeply flawed scheme. we now need the commission to come forward with a proposal for a permanent mechanism which will see any unused allowances removed at the end of each trading period.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the introduction of a market stability reserve, and the emissions trading scheme. therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the introduction of a market stability reserve, and the emissions trading scheme. therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the belet report given the system for trading greenhouse gas emissions (ets) needs fixing urgently following the severe destabilisation caused by the economic crisis and the over-allocation of allowances. i believe the market stability reserve will send a strong signal to the markets and is vital for influencing long-term investment decisions, avoiding costly mistakes and technology lock-in.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the current eu emissions trading scheme is flawed and fails to address to problem of oversupply of carbon allowances in the market which enable industry to emit greenhouse gases. it is crucial we take action to repair the ets and turn it into a mechanism that controls emissions and promotes investments in clean technologies. i believe the market stability reserve is the right instrument to achieve stability in the market and i fully support its introduction as soon as possible. by transferring allowances to the msr in times of oversupply and releasing them in times of undersupply, the eu ets will be more flexible and more stable and therefore better placed to achieve our climate goals. we must have a balanced system that will benefit our industries and enable a transition to a sustainable and green economy in europe which will provide a model to other countries worldwide. we, as europeans, owe this to our citizens, our industries and future generations.
in writing. ‒ today’s vote marks an important step in rebalancing europe’s carbon market. nevertheless, more work need to be done, and i await with interest the commission’s proposals for revising the ets market post-2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the market needs assurances, and this ought to be agreed if we want to move to the next set of reforms; and secondly the innovation fund represents a significant improvement on earlier deals and will represent a decent investment in future de-carbonisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the innovation fund represents a significant improvement on earlier deals and will represent a decent investment in future decarbonisation.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this directive by the european parliament is an important step in the improvement of seafarers’ employment rights, including safeguards if redundancies are proposed, protection for workers when shipping companies are transferred to new owners, and rights to be informed and consulted on matters affecting key working conditions. european level employers and trade unions are in favour of the new rights and were responsible at the outset for agreeing the content of the directive. despite this clear consensus, uk conservative meps were amongst the very few members of the parliament who voted against. along with my labour and other colleagues in the socialists and democrats group in the parliament, i supported this sensible and progressive measure to help protect quality jobs and decent standards in the shipping sector. it is also welcome that we secured a reduction in the proposed implementation period for the new directive from five to two years. in its ongoing review of the maritime strategy to 2018, the european commission should take full account of the significance of fair terms and conditions of work and the positive contribution of collective bargaining for the success of the maritime sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report from the employment and social affairs committee, which amends five existing labour-related directives aimed at providing a minimum safety net for workers. all five exclude seafarers from these protections and the aim of the report is for seafarers to receive the same protections as other workers as set out in the directives. the relevant directives address:- the protection of employees if their employer becomes insolvent;- the safeguarding of employees’ rights in the event of transfers of undertakings;- the establishment of european works councils;- establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees;- the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to collective redundancies. the proposal from the commission has been strengthened and improved in the employment and social affairs committee under the current rapporteur – after an earlier draft report was rejected as it tried to even further exclude seafarers from these protections. this report will help strengthen protections at work for seafarers, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ this was a particularly complex issue: i support anything which increases safety, but also have concerns about eu involvement.
in writing. ‒ this was a particularly complex issue: i support anything which increases safety, but also have concerns about eu involvement.
in writing. ‒ the nature of seafaring was seen as an obstacle to informing and consulting workers, which is a key component of a number of the directives – electronic means of communication (for example, internet and satellite phones) with vessels on the high sea were considered at the time to be expensive and difficult to justify. conservatives maintain our concerns that further regulatory measures could put eu flags at a competitive disadvantage with third-country flags and could lead to flagging out to non-eu flags. finally we have concerns that such regulatory measures may actually result in poorer employment conditions for seafarers in european waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the morin-chartier report because i believe seafarers should be able to enjoy the same employment rights in the eu as land-based workers. i also welcome that the report provides a sensible balance of protecting seafarers against regulatory burden. all workers deserve equal treatment and equal rights and the eu can play a crucial role in bringing this about.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on seafarers is designed to give seafaring workers the same employment rights enjoyed by those who work in land-based employment throughout the eu. it offers a sensible balance of protecting seafarers against regulatory burden. the labour party will monitor the application of the directive vigorously.
in writing. ‒ it has been an unfortunate anomaly that europe’s seafarers have not benefited from the full protection of eu labour laws. this report seeks to rectify this situation and i was happy to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on seafarers is intended to give seafarers the same employment rights as those workers who are land-based in the eu. it provides a sensible balance of protecting seafarers against regulatory burden. the labour party will monitor the application of the directive vigorously.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on seafarers is intended to give seafarers the same employment rights as those workers who are land-based in the eu. it provides a sensible balance of protecting seafarers against regulatory burden. the labour party will monitor the application of the directive vigorously.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure because of the impact upon the eu budget, and therefore on taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure because of the impact upon the eu budget, and therefore on taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020, including cooperation within the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the swiss confederation’s participation in the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ i have longstanding objections to the eu’s iter activities and therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020, including cooperation within the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the swiss confederation's participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020, including cooperation within the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the swiss confederation's participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which regulates the participation of switzerland in horizon 2020 and iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on guidelines for employment policies of member states. this report is certainly an improvement on the commission proposal on this topic but it also includes several problematic elements that promote business interests at the expense of labour rights. the commission proposal focused on reforming education systems in order to match skills with the demand of the labour market, modernising social security systems, reforming pension systems including linking retirement age to life expectancy, and shifting the tax burden from labour to other sources of taxation. the agea report improved on this significantly by including references to decent working conditions and adequate wages, labour standards, adequate social protection, among other things. the report also widened the scope of the report to challenging poverty. i was in favour of many elements of the report. however, there were also several aspects of the report i had problems with, including removing important regulations for business, the promotion of entrepreneurship in the social care sector and skewing the member states’ education systems to meet the needs of the labour market. i have serious concerns about these aspects of the report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support the principle of an eu-wide minimum income scheme, however much i might support such measures in the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support the principle of an eu-wide minimum income scheme, however much i might support such measures in the member states themselves. this should be a matter wholly for national parliaments to decide on.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it intrudes upon areas of member state competence. too often this parliament seeks to legislate where it has no power. these guidelines go far beyond what they should. it entirely ignores areas of exclusive member state competency. i cannot support them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agea report because i believe it is high time the cost of living crisis, that has been felt for too long in the uk and throughout europe, was addressed. too many people find themselves stuck on zero hour contracts or in precarious work. labour wants to see wage growth and the protection of workers’ rights which this report achieves. we owe it to our citizens to tap the full potential of instruments offered by the eu to invest in sustainable and quality job creation; decent working conditions; decent living wages set up through collective bargaining; rights-based labour markets with adequate social protection; reduced labour market segmentation; and quality employment for all in terms of socio-economic security. i furthermore agree that the review of europe 2020 must be used as an opportunity to put quality jobs at the centre of european policy. europe’s job-rich recovery has to materialise now.
in writing. ‒ i alongside my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of action to deal with abusive zero-hour contracts, which offer no job security and stop workers from being able to plan for their future, get credit or apply for a mortgage. over 5 million people in the uk today are in low-paid jobs, many of these people are on zero-hour contracts. this report recognises and goes some way in tackling this problem. the eu gets it. but does cameron’s tory government?
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the need to eliminate poverty across the eu through the promotion of decent, well-paying jobs. my country has the misfortune of having many aspects of its employment policies governed by a tory government for which the people did not vote. today’s vote sent out a strong message and the eu will play a valuable role if it is in any way able to mitigate the worst excesses of london tory rule.
in writing. ‒ there has been a cost of living crisis in the uk and throughout europe. too many people find themselves stuck on zero hour contracts or in precarious work. labour wants to see wage growth and the protection of workers’ rights which this report achieves. that is why today i voted in favour of the report on guidelines for employment policies of the member states which will support the achievement of sustainable growth and quality job creation.
in writing. ‒ labour meps today voted for action on abusive zero-hour contracts that offer no job security and prevent employees from being able to financially plan for their future or apply for a mortgage. five million people in the uk are in low paid jobs, often on zero-hour contracts or in precarious work. today’s report recognises and attempts to tackle these problems. the eu gets it. but does cameron’s tory government?
in writing. ‒ i voted with my socialist colleagues in favour of this report because there has been a cost of living crisis in the uk and throughout europe. too many people find themselves stuck on zero-hour contracts or in precarious work. labour wants to see wage growth and the protection of workers’ rights which this report achieves. that is why today we voted in favour of the report on guidelines for employment policies of the member states which will support the achievement of sustainable growth and quality job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the commission’s proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in order to grant € 1 365 000 from the egf to finland. the finnish grant will apply to 600 finnish workers who have lost their jobs with electronics company broadcom. some 3 000 broadcom jobs have been lost altogether globally as a result of its decision to end one aspect of its work (cellular baseband). the company is completely ending its finnish operations and continuing operations in the us and asia. the egf can be used to assist workers in situations of mass lay-offs arising from economic contractions, and has previously been used to assist workers in this situation in ireland. the circumstances in the broadcom case meet the requirements for the egf to be applied, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of finland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of finland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the labour party and the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new global financial and economic crisis. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the uk government has never applied for such funding to date.
in writing. ‒ i fully support measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies nor do i believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the mandate for 2016, while showing slight improvement, is still singing from the same hymn sheet – more austerity, the same old politics with a neo-liberal agenda that is re-enforced by the budget. it is time for a change of direction, a time to address the needs of the people and actually commit to decent and quality employment and a commitment to smart, sustainable growth. we need enhanced support of cohesion policies and it is crucial that we support the countries that are facing social and economic constraints. the hangover we have inherited from the 2007-2013 mff is ongoing. 2014-2020 eu programs will not be really initiated before mid-2016. if we are genuinely looking to resolve some of the issues i believe we need to have a revision of the mff. we have a duty to do the right thing on behalf of citizens. we need real investment in people, not profits. it is for the reasons outlined above that i abstained from this vote.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure: it is a more-of-the-same bloated eu budget; europe should do less, not more.
in writing. ‒ the british conservatives voted against this report. while we recognise that the commission’s draft budget 2016 and this report are a step in the right direction in terms of re-prioritising eu funding on those areas where real eu added value can be identified, conservatives have always been clear that we want to see real budget discipline and ensure that we have a budget that is fit for purpose and future proof. we believe that we must be prudent now more than ever in order to recoup previous years’ spending (e.g. mobilisation of the contingency margin of eur 3 billion above the ceilings in 2014). we want to ensure that we make savings now for the future in order to react to unforeseen circumstances and, most importantly, that we deliver on the existing mff agreement. unfortunately, we are not convinced that this sentiment is reflected in this report, and for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this measure: it is a more-of-the-same, bloated eu budget; europe should do less, not more.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft budget mandate because the aims of the ecr to have a budget that is fit for purpose and future-proof have not been entirely met. i am glad to see that the budget has not increased from 2015. accountable spending should be a priority for the eu. although this budget is a step in the right direction it still has too many failings.
in writing. ‒ i alongside my colleagues in the labour party in the european parliament voted against this report. we do not support such increases which are above the rate of inflation to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ today we have heard from the greek prime minister, and the treatment he received from some members of this house was appalling. it is clear that the austerity agenda pursued by some governments and institutions has failed, and in negotiating the 2016 budget we should have regard for more progressive policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report which represents the first step for parliament in the annual budgetary procedure. it sets out parliament’s broad aims and priorities for the 2016 budget. i believe that the commission proposal is constructive, but i support proposals which seek to cut the budget not increase it.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp colleagues i voted against this report. even though, this report represents the first step for the parliament in the annual budgetary procedure. it sets out the parliament’s broad aims and priorities for the 2016 budget. however, labour meps note that the commission’s proposal represents only +2.4% in commitments and +1.6% in payments as compared to the 2015 budget. this is, however, above inflation and not a position the labour party can support at this time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will help us realise the job-creation potential of the green economy in the future across europe, including in ireland. it aims to ensure that the transition does not leave working people and their communities behind. the report stresses the importance of ensuring the economic transformation we need to achieve is a ‘just transition’. a just transition means ensuring targeted skills training and assistance is provided for workers and students – including workers dislocated from declining polluting industries – in emerging green technologies and energy efficiency. the new jobs created in the green economy should be decent, secure and well-paid. we need workers and their unions to be deeply involved in the transition. i voted against the wording in §62 relating to tax, as it appeared to be that the wording amounted to an infringement of the tax sovereignty of member states. i am disappointed that some parliamentary groups banded together to weaken important elements of the report, such as the commitment to creating quality, secure jobs. despite this, the report is still a progressive and valuable step forward.
in writing. ‒ where jobs are gained through the introduction of inefficient measures, jobs are correspondingly lost in industry due to higher prices. the job creation is a mirage, and i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ where jobs are gained through the introduction of inefficient measures, jobs are correspondingly lost in industry due to higher prices. the job creation is a mirage, and i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ while the ecr can support the general sentiment of this report, it cannot support a number of specific paragraphs which we believe go above and beyond the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality including calls for a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and carcinogens; the introduction of a financial transaction tax; the creation of decent and inclusive jobs by leveraging the power of public procurement via social and environmental clauses; and the introduction of a legal obligation on employers to include workers’ representatives in green workplace programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it does not respect the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. the initiative would only increase the regulatory burden on businesses and involve higher costs. this is unacceptable since many smes already struggle with applying eu legislation. additionally, social and environmental clauses should not be the portal through which these burdensome and costly measures are brought to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the lambert report because it is imperative we increase the employment potential of jobs in the green sector. i welcome the green employment initiative, given it presents an integrated framework to allow labour market and skill policies to play an active role to support the transition towards a greener economy and focuses on the importance of anticipating and establishing adequate skills policies to support workers in coping with structural change, of securing labour market transitions, and of strengthening governance and partnership-based initiatives. the green sector offers huge opportunities for future job creation and we owe it to the 23 million people in europe who are currently out of work to make sure europe can maximise this potential.
in writing. ‒ i alongside my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of a report which aims to increase the employment potential of jobs in the green sector. across europe there are 23 million people unemployed. there needs to be strong investment in quality jobs and a real focus on growth. there is huge potential in the green sector for job creation in the future, we must make sure that the uk and the eu together work to maximise this.
in writing. ‒ the creation of ‘green jobs’ has the potential to boost future job creation and we must ensure that europe can maximise this opportunity. this important report aims at increasing the employment potential of jobs in the green sector. with 23 million people unemployed in europe, it is vital that we seize this opportunity to invest in decent work. we need a fair transition roadmap on green jobs which combines environmental goals with green skills development strategies and targeted investments. this will in turn support green smes and lead to much needed job creation.
in writing. ‒ the debate on this report coincides with the uk government’s announcement that it intends to privatise the green investment bank. it is vital that the government retains a stake in this bank and that it continues to operate under its original purpose, namely as a green bank. the bank is vital for investments in the green economy which are in turn important for the creation of green jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which ‘highlights the fact that full implementation of environmental legislation, as well as the improvement of environmental integration and policy coherence across different sectorial polices in the eu, are essential for a full deployment of the potential linked to the green economy and therefore for the creation of green jobs.’
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an important report aiming to increase the employment potential of jobs in the green sector. there are 23 million people unemployed in europe. we need to invest in quality jobs and focus on growth. the green sector offers huge potential for future job creation and we have to make sure the uk and europe can maximise this.
in writing. ‒ today labour meps voted in favour of an important report aiming to increase the employment potential of jobs in the green sector. there are 23 million people unemployed in europe. we need to invest in quality jobs and focus on growth. the green sector offers huge potential for future job creation and we have to make sure the uk and europe can maximise this.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my fellow labour meps and socialist colleagues in favour of this important report aiming to increase the employment potential of jobs in the green sector. there are 23 million people unemployed in europe. we need to invest in quality jobs and focus on growth. the green sector offers huge potential for future job creation and we have to make sure the uk and europe can maximise this opportunity.
in writing. ‒ ukip as a party does not condone tax evasion of any sort, but we also do not believe that this is the european union’s responsibility to address. we believe that tax evasion in developing states should be an issue of compliance between member states and international tax bodies.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with tax avoidance and tax evasion and the effect that this has on developing countries. moreover, this report feeds into the un agenda on financing for development which will hold a high-level summit in ethiopia next week. it builds on important measures and instruments such as public listing of ultimate beneficial owners of companies and transparency in tax reporting. these are necessary measures in combating the illicit capital flows from developing countries to anonymous multinationals who purposely manipulate legislation in order to take advantage of tax loopholes. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly oppose tax avoidance and evasion. however, these issues – in countries outside the eu – are not the responsibility of the eu itself. this should not be a european union matter, and therefore i had to vote against – however laudable the principles might be.
in writing. ‒ i strongly oppose tax avoidance and evasion. however, these issues – in countries outside the eu – are not the responsibility of the eu itself. this should not be a european union matter, and therefore i had to vote against – however laudable the principles might be.
in writing. ‒ while the uk government has been at the forefront of tackling international tax avoidance and evasion, we cannot support a number of initiatives called for in this report. in particular we cannot support calls for country-by-country reporting to be made publically available, nor can conservatives support calls for a swift agreement on an eu wide common consolidated corporate tax base.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i firmly support tax as a member state competency. although my own government has been at the forefront of tackling international tax avoidance and evasion it has done so through its own initiatives and bilateral methods. this, without a doubt, encroaches on member states’ competence of tax. furthermore, it completely ignores the principle of subsidiarity by calling for an eu-wide common consolidated corporate tax base.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the schlein report because it is high time we send a strong message on the need to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries. knowing that a small increase in tax revenues in developing countries would dwarf the amount of aid they receive, it is imperative we take strong measures in the post-2015 development framework to support these countries in mobilising domestic resources and tackling tax avoidance. it is vital that multinational companies pay their fair share of tax in developing countries. we need to bring an end to tax havens for multinational companies, including for those who are based in europe. we will only bring an end to poverty and inequality if we support fair taxes at home as well as abroad.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution dealing with tax evasion and avoidance as challenges in developing countries. i alongside my labour colleagues voted for the eu to do more and work harder to help developing countries clamp down on tax dodging. such measures will enable governments to better resource healthcare, sanitation and education. this report called on the european commission to put forward a plan on assisting developing countries in fighting tax dodging and setting up fairer tax systems, financial and technical assistance to developing countries; enforce country-by-country reporting for multinationals; and ensure the un taxation committee has teeth. action on tax avoidance and evasion will help developing countries work towards the un sustainable development goals, which aim to complete the task of the millennium directive and provide healthcare and education to all children.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this report and believe it raises the key issues in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries. with the forthcoming conference on financing for development, the summit on the sustainable development goals and the paris climate negotiations later this year, this is a very timely report. just a small increase in tax revenue in developing countries could overshadow the amount of aid received. it is therefore vital that multinational companies pay their fair share of tax – at home and abroad. as we mark the european year for development, by voting for this report we are showing our commitment to fighting extreme poverty and inequality.
in writing. ‒ tax evasion is a global problem and it can have a serious impact on the economies of many developing countries. i supported this report and urge the commission to come forward with recommendations at the earliest opportunity.
in writing. ‒ i do not condone tax evasion of any sort, and i also do not believe that this is the european union’s responsibility to address. i believe that tax evasion in developing states should be an issue of compliance between member states and international tax bodies.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of better mobilisation of domestic resources and the problems that developing countries face in tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance, the rapporteur suggests a list of strong recommendations that the ep should support, in view of the ffd conference to be held in addis ababa and the range of existing international initiatives to reform the global tax system. among them, strengthening financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional tax administration frameworks; the adoption of strong solutions to enhance transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax dodging, such as an automatic exchange of information mechanism and country-by-country reporting, taking into consideration developing countries’ needs and constraints; the conducting at eu and member states’ level of an impact assessment of tax policies on developing countries; the preservation of source countries’ taxation rights when negotiating tax treaties and the creation of a truly intergovernmental body where developing countries could participate on an equal footing in the global reform of existing international tax rules.
in writing. ‒ this report sends an important message on the need to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries. we know that a small increase in tax revenues in developing countries would dwarf the amount of aid they receive. domestic resources and international finance both form important pillars of the new global development framework after 2015. it is vital that multinational companies pay their fair share of tax in developing countries. in the european year for development, labour meps continue to show their commitment to the fight against extreme poverty and inequality. we should promote fair taxes abroad as we do at home.
in writing. ‒ ukip as a party does not condone tax evasion of any sort, but we also do not believe that this is the european union’s responsibility to address. we believe that tax evasion in developing states should be an issue of compliance between member states and international tax bodies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today’s resolution adopted by the european parliament on tax evasion and tax avoidance as challenges in developing countries. i voted for the eu to do more to help developing countries clamp down on tax dodging, measures which will give governments resources to improve healthcare, sanitation and education. today’s report calls on the european commission to put forward an action plan on supporting developing countries in fighting tax avoidance and evasion and setting up fairer tax systems; financial and technical assistance to developing countries; enforce country-by-country reporting for multinationals; and ensure the un taxation committee has teeth. action on such tax dodging will help developing countries work to towards the un sustainable development goals, which aim to complete the task of the millennium development goals and provide healthcare and education to all children.
in writing. ‒ this report sends an important message on the need to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries. we know that a small increase in tax revenues in developing countries would dwarf the amount of aid they receive. domestic resources and international finance both form important pillars of the new global development framework after 2015. it is vital multinational companies pay their fair share of tax in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it sends an important message on the need to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries. we know that a small increase in tax revenues in developing countries would dwarf the amount of aid they receive. domestic resources and international finance both form important pillars of the new global development framework after 2015. it is vital that multinational companies pay their fair share of tax in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ this report sends an important message on the need to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries. we know that a small increase in tax revenues in developing countries would dwarf the amount of aid they receive. domestic resources and international finance both form important pillars of the new global development framework after 2015. it is vital that multinational companies pay their fair share of tax in developing countries. in the european year for development, labour meps continue to show their commitment to the fight against extreme poverty and inequality. we should promote fair taxes abroad as we do at home.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report, because resource efficiency offers an opportunity for the european union to get more for less. through better use of our raw materials and energy, we can reduce our carbon footprint and lower our consumption of finite resources. by developing more durable and reparable products, we can have goods that have a longer lifespan and end planned obsolescence. by improving the design of products, we can make our recycling more efficient, thereby reducing waste in landfills. at the same time, we will be strengthening our economy and creating the millions of decent jobs that we urgently need in regions like my own. resource efficiency is a chance we simply cannot afford to miss, and today’s report is an important step towards creating an effective policy framework to deliver it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the circular economy and i am pleased that the majority of the european parliament has as well, especially in light of the commission’s decision to withdraw the waste proposal earlier this year. this vote by parliament will hopefully put pressure on the commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal by the end of this year. whilst i would have preferred to see a mandatory 30% target for overall resource use in the eu instead of a temporary one, overall this report sends out an ambitious signal to the european commission. the commission must now seize the opportunity to build upon the parliament’s recommendations and come forward with legislation which is stronger than their original proposals. it is essential that we end our overconsumption of natural resources now. any such move will not only benefit our environment but also contribute to significant cost-savings whilst creating an estimated 2 million new jobs by 2050.
in writing. ‒ whilst this is an own-initiative report, it proposes changes to the eu waste directive and for further eu legislation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst this is an own-initiative report, it proposes changes to the eu waste directive and for further eu legislation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pietikäinen report, which constitutes an important step towards the new progressive concept of a circular economy. implementing a circular economy model responds to major policy challenges in the eu such as jobs and growth, innovation, and the re-industrialisation agenda. i therefore urge the commission to take an innovative and sustainable approach to issues such as resource efficiency, recovery, reuse and recycling of materials, which will become key elements of the production processes. europe’s ability to compete with others in the global economy with ever decreasing resources will depend on our success in pushing this agenda forward.
in writing. ‒ with this vote we made an important step working towards the progressive concept of a circular economy. issues such as resource efficiency, recovery, reuse and recycling of materials will become key elements of the production processes. the challenge to compete in the global economy we live in today with an ever-decreasing supply of resources will more increasingly depend on innovation and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ today marks an important step in the move towards the circular economy. this is an innovative and progressive move away from the current linear economy and will incorporate resource efficiency, recovery, reuse and recycling of materials into the production process. the eu currently imports half of the resources it consumes and throws away around 600 million tonnes of waste that could be reused. this is unsustainable. the circular economy also presents a real opportunity for europe to compete globally in the context of ever decreasing resources.
in writing. ‒ the unsustainable use of resources is both causing environmental damage and posing an economic risk. the global economy uses the equivalent of 1.5 planets’ worth of resources to produce global output and absorb waste. by the 2030s this figure is estimated to reach two planets. the annual consumption of minerals, fossil fuels and biomass is projected to double by 2050, reaching 140 million tonnes. this is a result of a combination of population growth, more disposable income, more product diversity than before and shorter product lifespan. to continue in this course would lead to an ecological and economic impasse.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we made an important step towards the new progressive concept of a circular economy. factors such as resource efficiency, recovery, reuse and recycling of materials will become key elements of the production processes. the challenge to compete in the global economy with ever decreasing resources will more and more depend on innovation and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ in march 2015, the commission confirmed its decision to withdraw the waste proposals which it had published in 2014 as part of its circular economy package. broadly, i welcome elements of this report as it recognises the link between making better use of resources and minimising waste if we are to move to a more circular economy. this is vital and i do want it to be ambitious – not least if one considers the potential positive impact on northern ireland. but there are elements that are problematic. i am a firm believer in evidence-based policy making, and the report verges on a number of points towards being too prescriptive. it is important to have ambitious targets, but they should be underpinned by sound scientific analysis and assessment.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we made an important step towards the new progressive concept of a circular economy. factors such as resource efficiency, recovery, reuse and recycling of materials will become key elements of the production processes. the challenge to compete in the global economy with ever decreasing resources will more and more depend on innovation and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because i believe that we should set ambitious targets for the circular economy. i feel, however, that it is important to emphasise that it is up to the member states to deliver these, and too often the uk government has lacked ambition. i hope this report will encourage them to increase their efforts. the scottish government, in contrast, has pushed hard to achieve what it can within the powers it currently possesses. the government has already set ambitious targets such as aiming to recycle 70% of all waste by 2025; banning all biodegradable municipal waste going to landfill by 2021; and preventing any more than 5% of waste materiel going to landfill by 2025.
in writing. ‒ with today’s vote we made an important step towards the new progressive concept of a circular economy. factors such as resource efficiency, recovery, reuse and recycling of materials will become key elements of the production processes. the challenge to compete in the global economy with ever-decreasing resources will more and more depend on innovation and sustainability
in writing. ‒ along with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for further work on the package to include a focus on more sustainable design and innovation; the need for smarter regulation; the need to remove barriers to innovative business models; better exchange of information; and the need for cross-cutting measures that take account of the synergies between environmental policies and other actions aimed at encouraging growth and innovation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the aim of this report was to lay down the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident. however, i believe that the measures included are insufficient to provide adequate protection and the legislation proposes maximum levels which do not correspond to many experts’ recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text as a whole because i believe that the overall power should lie with the member states and not the european union. nevertheless, i agree with the concept that there should be tough standards on these issues and therefore i voted accordingly on the amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text as a whole because i believe that overall power should lie with the member states and not the european union. nevertheless, i agree with the concept that there should be tough standards on these issues and therefore i voted accordingly on the amendments.
in writing. ‒ on 10 january 2014, the commission modified its proposal, but maintained articles 31 and 32 of the euratom treaty as legal bases. in response envi adopted its position changing the legal basis once again, replacing it with articles 168(4)(b) and 114 tfeu. both our shadow rapporteur and the juri committee, consider this approach to be inconsistent with the idea of maintaining the european atomic energy community as a separate organisation responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector. therefore, the ecr shadow rapporteur believes that the original commission proposal was sufficient and rejects the conclusions of this report.
in writing. ‒ president, i supported the herranz - garcia report given strong measures are needed to ensure swift action to protect public health from contaminated food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident. the eu needs up-to-date legal instruments that include flexible, incident-specific decision-making procedures to address situations like those that occurred in the wake of the accidents at chernobyl and fukushima. i do, however, believe meps should be given a stronger role in setting maximum limits on radioactive contamination of food and feed, and that the public has a right to be fully informed when measures are taken in reaction to a nuclear accident.
in writing. ‒ myself and my fellow labour meps support measures which ensure that swift action can be taken to protect the health of the general public from contaminated food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident. however, labour meps would like to see meps given a stronger role in setting maximum limits and call for full information to be made publically available.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support measures to ensure that swift action can be taken to protect public health from contaminated food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident. however, we would like to see meps given a stronger role in setting maximum limits and call for full information to be made publicly available.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support measures to ensure that swift action can be taken to protect public health from contaminated food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident. however, we would like to see meps given a stronger role in setting maximum limits and call for full information to be made publicly available.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support measures to ensure that swift action can be taken to protect public health from contaminated food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident. however, we would like to see meps given a stronger role in setting maximum limits and call for full information to be made publically available.
in writing. ‒ labour meps support measures to ensure that swift action can be taken to protect public health from contaminated food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident. however, we would like to see meps given a stronger role in setting maximum limits and call for full information to be made publicly available.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on a future capital markets union. the commission argues that small and medium-sized enterprises should not rely too heavily on the conventional banking sector in order to obtain finance and that they should be able to access funding elsewhere. furthermore, the commission is attempting to duplicate the us model where companies are mainly financed by capital markets and shadow banking activities. they also fail to factor in the very real concern that the financial crisis has shown that traditional banking has provided more lending to the real economy than universal or investments banks. what is required is a focus on public banking and local banking and not a revival of shadow banking. moreover, instead of a focus on capital market union, what is required is a rejection of austerity policies. anything else is a card trick. as we have seen, a focus on short-term growth is dangerous and as long as systematic risks have not been comprehensively addressed we have not truly reduced the risk of future crises and related costs on both the economy and citizens’ lives. irish citizens are still experiencing the results of such negligence and disregard in ireland.
in writing. ‒ this calls upon the commission to establish eu ‘market infrastructure’ payment systems, increase regulation of credit rating agencies and of audit firms. none of this should be done at eu level and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this calls upon the commission to establish eu ‘market infrastructure’ payment systems and increase the regulation of credit rating agencies and of audit firms. none of this should be done at eu level and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the econ oral question and resolution represent a first reaction from the committee to the commission green paper proposing a capital markets union (cmu), led by lord hill. the resolution includes high-level compromises covering key topics such as the possible benefits of a cmu, the need for it to be a genuine 28 member state european approach, and the identification of legislative barriers that might hinder success. the ecr has successfully added amendments pointing out that non-legislative measures have merit and market-led solutions are important.
in writing. ‒ i alongside my socialist and democrat colleagues voted in favour of this resolution in support of building a capital markets union with a strong supervisory role played by the esma.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the overall resolution on a capital markets union.
mr president, this year people in the united kingdom and across the anglo-speaking world, from america to canada, will be celebrating the 800th year of the signing of the magna carta. this great charter of liberties was the culmination of an epic struggle between the people and an elite who wanted to have arbitrary authority over their lives and freedom. they fought for freedom of liberty, freedom from illegal imprisonment and freedom from the despot. today those brave signatories will be turning in their graves as a cloud of authoritarianism floats over the citizens of europe as, once again, this place votes for increased powers for a european police force, votes for a european security and justice system that will allow the european union to have its own security services, and security services that will have the powers to look over and control the security services of nation states. i oppose this attack on the civil liberties of a nation state that once stood strong for magna carta and strong for the people.
in writing. ‒ this represents an expansionist eu foreign policy which i utterly reject, and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this represents an expansionist eu foreign policy which i utterly reject, and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these oral questions to the council and commission. i broadly supported the commission’s european agenda on security for 2015-2019 when it was first set out. however, parliament’s final resolution has not mirrored the original priorities. i cannot support that ‘economic inequalities’ are the root cause of all criminal activity nor an eu-wide agreement on what constitutes ‘national security’.
in writing. ‒ i welomce this report which "stresses the gravity of organised crime, in particular in terms of human trafficking, including forced prostitution, organ trafficking, child sexual exploitation and work slavery; recalls the extreme degrees of violence and brutality criminals exert on particularly vulnerable groups such as women, children and migrants; welcomes the existing framework and agrees to the need for a post-2016 strategy that fully involves europol and eurojust, on account of their expertise in this field".
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen is a particularly concerning one, and i particularly note the terrible conditions in aden and the surrounding areas. i support the right of the people of south yemen to self-determination. this report has much to commend it, and addresses some of the issues in yemen, but not all. furthermore, it pushes european foreign policy which should be the preserve of the member states. i therefore decided on balance to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen is a particularly concerning one, and i particularly note the terrible conditions in aden and the surrounding areas. i support the right of the people of south yemen to self-determination. this report has much to commend it, and addresses some of the issues in yemen, but not all. furthermore, it pushes european foreign policy, which should be the preserve of the member states. i therefore decided on balance to abstain. my amendments to this report were voted against by the parliament. these included highlighting the need for the correct actors to be attending any peace negotiations, equal access for the distribution of humanitarian aid in both the north and south of the yemen, as well as noting that the continued unity of yemen, is not necessarily the approach to a securing a lasting peace.
in writing. ‒ yemen is in the midst of its most severe crisis in years, with spiralling violence and competing forces fighting for control. already the poorest country in the middle east, yemen is wracked by soaring unemployment, dwindling oil and water reserves, and is home to the most dangerous branch of al-qaeda. the country was thrown into further turmoil earlier this year after houthi rebels forced president abd rabbuh mansur hadi to flee to aden and then to saudi arabia.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on yemen given the crisis is causing an appalling humanitarian crisis and is further destabilising the country, including by creating a breeding ground for the expansion of terrorist and extremist organisations like is and al-qaeda. i therefore urge the high representative to offer full support to the efforts of the un to broker peace negotiations between the warring parties, as well as to oman in its role as negotiator for achieving a cease-fire between the houthis and the forces loyal to the government of yemen as a first step towards a political solution. the eu should also work with all stakeholders towards securing a humanitarian pause in order to allow life-saving assistance badly need by the yemeni people and push for rapid, safe and unhindered access for humanitarian actors to reach people in need of humanitarian assistance. looking at the mid-term, europe should champion a grand international plan in the un to secure yemen’s water supply, which could be instrumental in bringing a potential peace process to a successful conclusion, giving the population a perspective to be able to improve agriculture, feed themselves and rebuild the country. fulfilling these conditions will be crucial for bringing sustainable peace to yemen and the region.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on yemen as the current situation is causing an appalling humanitarian crisis which is further destabilising the country.
in writing. ‒ this resolution rightly reaffirms the european parliament’s strong support for the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen, and stands by the people of yemen.
in writing. ‒ an amendment passed suggesting that actions against isis would be usefully co-ordinated by the european union. consequently, irrespective of the remainder of the text, i had no choice but to vote against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ an amendment passed suggesting that actions against isis would be usefully coordinated by the european union. consequently, irrespective of the remainder of the text, i had no choice but to vote against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report specifically examines the security challenges for the mena region, including that posed by islamic state forces, but also other areas including the civil war in syria and the israel-palestine situation. while there are some parts of the report which the ecr can support in terms of international cooperation to address security concerns, there are other proposals which stray too far into areas of national competence. for these reasons ecr members abstained in committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the peillon report given that it sends a clear message on key action points for eu policy in the middle east and north africa (mena). the spate of terrorist attacks that have taken place over the past year and that are directly linked to the region show the need to prioritise the fight against terrorist groups as well as to support democratic reform. decades of war in the mena region have taught us that repression and lack of inclusivity are prime breeding grounds for terrorism and should be tackled head on. i also agree the commission needs to take strong and structural measures to address the problem of young people leaving the eu to fight for terrorist organisations in syria and iraq. i furthermore concur with the report’s view on the merits of negotiations with iran over its nuclear programme which, if successful, would constitute an historic achievement in advancing peace and stability. i am therefore deeply disappointed that groups on the far right want to see these negotiations fail, and would rather see tensions and mutual distrust continue instead.
in writing. ‒ i and my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group voted in favour of this report. this report urges the commission to work with countries in the mena region, to address the problem of young european people leaving the eu to go and fight on behalf of terrorist organisations in syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this resolution firmly opposes the use of drones in extrajudicial and extraterritorial killings of terror suspects, and demands a ban on the use of drones for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which urges the commission to address structurally, together with the countries in the mena region, the problem of young people leaving the eu to fight for terrorist organisations in syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on security challenges in the middle east and north africa.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it urges the commission to address structurally, together with the countries in the mena region, the problem of young people leaving the eu to fight for terrorist organisations in syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ this is a comprehensive report which identifies many of the problems that are of strategic interest to the eu and its member states. the destabilisation of the entire region poses grave threats to eu member states and it is vital that governments work together to pursue policies that take account of our mutual interests in the region. as thousands of eu citizens travel to iraq and syria to fight with isis it is more important than ever to find joint solutions to the threat of terrorism that they pose back home, sharing intelligence and information. i am particularly pleased that the report refers to the introduction of a european passenger name record, which would make it easier to track the movements of foreign fighters. i would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the references to the refugee and idp crisis facing the middle east, particularly the burden being placed upon jordan, lebanon and the kurdistan regional government. more needs to be done to help them cope with the huge strain that is being placed on their infrastructure and resources – failure to do so risks weakening those entities and putting further migratory pressures on europe.
in writing. ‒ there were some positive aspects in this review of the enp. it highlighted the importance of women’s rights, gender equality, human rights, cultural diversity, lgbti rights, rights of minorities, rights of people with disabilities, etc. in the context of the enp. furthermore, the review referred to article 2 of association agreements which bases these agreements on respect for human rights. it goes on to say that policies that jeopardise values, such as respect for human rights should not be adopted under the enp and that the eu cannot compromise its values. i welcome these points. unfortunately, in practice, we see that the eu’s relationship with israel continues to jeopardise these values by failing to take action on israel’s persistent violation of human rights in palestine. this review calls for a strengthening of a common foreign and security policy. it calls for member states to align their efforts so as to speak with a single voice on issues concerning the eastern neighbourhood countries. sovereignty over irish foreign policy is of utmost importance to the irish people and to sinn féin. therefore i abstained on this review of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ i do not support taxpayers’ money being spent on the european neighbourhood policy, and this proposal moves further in the wrong direction. i therefore felt it necessary to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i do not support taxpayers’ money being spent on the european neighbourhood policy, as this proposal further highlights the expansionist aims and neo-colonialism ideals of the european union. i unequivocally voted against.
in writing. ‒ the ecr is keen to foster strong relations with the countries which border the eu and will continue to work with partners to secure long-term stability and political reforms. but we also believe that under the enp as it currently operates it is very difficult to deliver a ‘one size fits all’ approach to relations with the eu’s neighbours. the current review must ensure future policy is more effective. it should also consider the policy of less for less with regard to those countries which go into reverse in terms of governance, democracy and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the review of the european neighbourhood policy. very often the eu is too slow in confronting a changing situation and so i welcome this review which takes into account conflicts along the border of the european union. the ecr is keen to foster strong relations and links with these countries and help secure long-term stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the kukan report, given that developments we have witnessed over the past years in both our eastern and southern neighbourhood impose the need for a thorough review of our neighbourhood policy (enp). if the eu wants to bring stability and prosperity to its neighbourhood, it should develop a more flexible, strategic and politically driven approach tailored to the needs and contexts of individual countries covered by the enp. given that the lack of freedom, prosperity and human rights have been a main breeding ground for the instability we have witnessed in countries both east and south of europe, i welcome that the report underscores the importance of enhancing the social dimension of the enp, including the need to fight against poverty and discrimination, and to promote human and women’s rights – points which were championed by my group. i welcome the work that is undertaken jointly by the council and commission on this revision exercise and hope this report, which enjoys broad support in the european parliament, will be taken as an important guiding line towards a stronger, more effective and result-oriented enp.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my fellow labour meps voted in favour of this report. whilst in the afet committee, this report was amended by a number of socialist and democrat amendments and now highlights the social dimension of the enp and the need to fight against poverty and discrimination and to promote human and women’s rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this report "highlights the importance of developing the social dimension of the enp, by engaging with the partners in the fight against poverty and exclusion, stimulating employment and fair growth, facilitating healthy labour relations and promoting education and decent work, thus also tackling some of the root causes of irregular migration"
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which follows the consultation process launched on 4 march 2015 with the joint consultation paper entitled ‘towards a new european neighbourhood policy’. the report stresses that the eastern neighbourhood policy needs to remain a single policy, recognising that both the eastern and the mediterranean partnerships are crucially important. it also calls for the appointment of eu special representatives for the east and the south dimensions and makes clear that, while recognising that the enp and the enlargement policy are separate policies, a membership perspective must be sustained as an incentive for those countries with clear european aspirations that are eligible under article 49 teu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the review of the european neighbourhood policy. i fully recognise that both the eastern and the mediterranean partnerships are crucially important to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the review of the european neighbourhood policy as it stresses that the eastern neighbourhood policy needs to remain a single policy, recognising that both the eastern and the mediterranean partnerships are crucially important. i also welcome the report’s call to sustain a membership perspective as an incentive for those countries with clear european aspirations eligible under article 49 teu.
in writing. ‒ this is a timely report that provides a useful guide in reshaping the european neighbourhood policy. as russia annexed the crimea and invaded ukraine, bullied armenia into joining the customs union, and libya was ravaged by civil war, the enp was left in a state of disarray by the end of 2014. events in countries neighbouring the eu’s external borders affect all member states and the migration crisis in the southern mediterranean is but one example of this. reinvigorating the enp and moving away from a ‘one size fits all’ model is imperative if its aims are to be achieved, and i am pleased that this report notes the need for more targeting and flexibility in its approach. the report is particularly good in noting the role that can played by individual member states via their existing bilateral ties with certain neighbourhood countries. in the southern neighbourhood the enp will be particularly valuable in the fight against terrorism and in restricting the movement of foreign fighters who may pose a threat to member states. i am pleased to vote in favour of this report and encourage the high representative to take heed of its messages in reinvigorating the enp.
in writing. ‒ with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it stresses that the eastern neighbourhood policy needs to remain a single policy, recognising that both the eastern and the mediterranean partnerships are crucially important. the report also calls for the appointment of eu special representatives for the east and the south dimensions and makes clear that, while recognising that the enp and the enlargement policy are separate policies, a membership perspective must be sustained as an incentive for those countries with clear european aspirations that are eligible under article 49 teu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aimed to bring the regulation of copyright up to date with technological advances in the digital age. this report aims to not only defend the rights of artists to be fairly remunerated for their intellectual property in the digital age, but also extends rights to the public and consumers. i am in favour of rights for consumers to access content without undue restrictions such as geo-blocking, provided that intellectual property creators are remunerated fairly. i voted against amendment 46, the so-called panorama amendment, which aimed to restrict the free use of images and photographs of public buildings. i also voted no to amendment 1, ‘after § 57’. while this amendment was couched in the language of protecting quality journalism, it is better known as the ‘snippet tax’, or ‘google tax’ and it was aimed at restricting the rights of internet users to hyperlink to other websites without paying a fee. if either of these two amendments had passed, i would not have been able to support the report. however, both fell, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ ultimately i had to vote against the reda report, because there are far too many calls for harmonisation. nevertheless, i did feel that there were some positive aspects to the principles behind the report, and a recognition that copyright law is outdated.
in writing. ‒ ultimately i had to vote against the reda report, because there are far too many calls for harmonisation. nevertheless, i did feel that there were some positive aspects to the principles behind the report, and a recognition that copyright law is outdated.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of saving panorama.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on copyright because it is an important step forward in reforming and updating the law. especially important was protecting the freedom of panorama about which many of my constituents in wales had contacted me. i hope that this report will now inform the commission’s legislative proposals.
in writing. ‒ i supported the reda report given it succeeds in striking a good balance between ensuring the rights of authors and performers, on the one side, and access to culture and information, on the other side. the cultural and creative sector accounts for up to 4.5% of the eu gdp and gives work to 8.5 million people, meaning it not only provides a crucial contribution to cultural development and diversity, but is also vital for the real economy. yet while the world has advanced to the digital age, copyright is still stuck in the past, meaning authors and performers do not receive fair pay for performances exploited via online media and many of them are in too weak a position to negotiate better terms. i hope that when the commission comes forward with a proposal on copyright reform later this year, it will include strong measures to render copyright fit for the digital age, facilitate cross-border access to creative content on fair and reasonable terms across the eu, and ensure authors’ and performers’ rights as well as adequate remuneration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which outlines the parliament’s views on copyright which will be instrumental in making our views known to the commission ahead of their proposals on copyright reform which is expected before the end of the year. i strongly believe in the right of creators to be fairly and appropriately remunerated for their work and was delighted to see this incorporated in this own initiative report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour meps are committed to ensuring that the commission, when proposing its copyright reform, takes on board the views of creators, industry and consumers so that we can take forward a copyright system which works fairly for all. this includes enhanced rights for creators of cultural content, and increased possibility for portability of services and access to cross-border content.
in writing. ‒ i voted to ensure that images taken in public spaces remain free to use as part of a report on comprehensive copyright reform. i will always support the freedom of panorama.
in writing. ‒ i supported this ini report setting out the european parliament’s position on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. we need to ensure that right holders are fairly remunerated for their creative output. however, at the same time we need to adjust the copyright regime to digital realities and ensure consumers have access to services and content they have paid for wherever they are in the eu. i believe the report is quite balanced: it addresses these concerns and aims to introduce potential solutions to update the current copyright regime to make it fit for the digital age.
in writing. ‒ i welcome many of the ideas included in this report which support the creative industry and evidence-based improvements to the current legal framework. however at today’s vote one outstanding issue of concern remained regarding the freedom of panorama and a clause which would alter the status quo in the uk regarding commercial use exceptions. i believe that member states should retain flexibility in this area and i do not support an eu-approach to this issue. i therefore voted to delete references to the freedom of panorama today.
geoffrey van orden (ecr),in writing. – whilst good copyright legislation is essential for competitiveness and entrepreneurship, the proposed paragraph on ‘freedom of panorama’ would have meant that permission would be needed to use even background or chance photos of public buildings, statues and landmarks for commercial purposes. although this is the case in some member states already, in the uk under section 62 of the copyright designs and patents act photographers can freely use such photos. with my conservative colleagues, i voted against this paragraph so that our photographers can continue to act freely rather than have other countries trying to impose their restrictive laws on us. this is a minor example of why subsidiarity and national sovereignty must be respected.
in writing. ‒ with my eplp and socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because the report is an own-initiative, but it will be important in setting out the parliament’s views before the commission’s copyright reform proposal, due by the end of the year. the report also stresses that copyright is only as effective as the enforcement measures in place to protect it and that in order to ensure a flourishing and innovative creative sector copyright enforcement must be robust. a lot of focus in the media and in public campaigns has been on an amendment added to the report by the liberal group which threatened freedom of panorama – i voted with my labour colleagues against this amendment, and it was strongly rejected in the vote. the labour party will vote against any amendment which negatively affects the current uk provisions on freedom of panorama.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-legislative report by meps in the legal affairs committee. the commission will propose a wide-ranging copyright reform by the end of this year, and the european parliament has been at the forefront of keeping the debate going on the freedom of panorama – the right to take photographs in public places without infringing copyright – and other issues. labour meps supported amendments that rejected any changes to freedom of panorama in the uk. after the clear public objection to restricting freedom of panorama, we will be able to send a strong message that we do not want to see any similar measures in future proposals.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the evaluation of the european endowment for democracy. the stated objective of the eed is to support civil society organisations, journalists/media, human rights activists and others who promote pro-democratic non-violent principles in countries where rights may be restricted. in principle i agree with supporting such groups in promoting human rights and democracy. however as well as civil society groups and organisations this report calls for the eed to engage with and support the emergence and consolidation of political parties. this could lead to interference by the eu in the political life of third countries by focusing on pro-eu organisations rather than pro-democracy organisations broadly speaking. i believe in the universality of human rights and democracy and i also believe in the right of all people to decide the political and economic destiny of their country. for this reason i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ taxpayers’ money from the member states should not be spent in support of this endowment. therefore i supported the alternative motion, and voted against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ taxpayers’ money from the member states should not be spent in support of this endowment. therefore i supported the alternative motion, and voted against the resolution as a whole. the lack of transparency of where the funds are being spent is just one of many issues surrounding the edd that leads me not to support it.
in writing. ‒ this report examines the eed’s work in line with the european union’s commitments to democracy and the rule of law, and in the context of worsening political, economic, and security situations in many of the countries in the eu’s eastern and southern neighbourhood. the report makes a series of recommendations from funding to policy coherence and grant giving.
in writing. ‒ i supported the grzyb report on the european endowment for democracy (eed) given it has played a largely positive role in promoting the european values of freedom and democracy since it was set up two years ago, and is complementary to the european instrument for democracy and human rights and other eu instruments, as it delivers through fast, flexible, bottom-up and demand-driven funding provided directly to beneficiaries. i agree that in order to sustain and further develop the effectiveness of the eed, it is vital to ensure long-term, sufficient, stable, transparent and predictable funding.
in writing. ‒ along with my european labour colleagues, i voted in favour of this report. the socialist and democrats group has worked tirelessly to amend this report, to ensure that a stronger emphasis is placed on groups suffering from social exclusion or political marginalisation by supporting groups including women’s movements, lgbti rights activists, emerging political movements and trade unions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report and in particular the fact that it "strongly encourages the eed to place stronger emphasis on groups suffering from social exclusion or political marginalisation, by supporting, inter alia, women’s movements aimed at furthering women’s rights and increasing their participation in public life, ethnic and linguistic minorities, lgbti human rights activists, persecuted religious minorities and civic activists linked to religious communities, together with grassroots movements, vulnerable or emerging political movements, trade unions, bloggers and new media activists"
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to ensure that the eed continues to promote the european values of freedom and democracy, which has been in existence now for two years. the report makes a generally positive evaluation of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on human rights and democracy. human rights should be upheld throughout the world, with the eu setting the standard.
in writing. ‒ the european endowment for democracy promotes european values of freedom and democracy and i therefore voted in favour of this report making an overall positive evaluation of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ i would like to confirm that my vote on this subject was to abstain, and i did so on the grounds that whilst the report contained aspects which i support, i also believe that foreign policy should be the preserve of the member states.
in writing. ‒ had i been present for this vote, i would have abstained on the grounds that, whilst the report contained aspects which i support, i believe that foreign policy should be the preserve of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on burundi, given that the crisis in the country that erupted following the decision of president nkurunziza to try to seek a third term in clear breach of the arusha agreement needs to be urgently addressed. the violence used by government-backed militias against peaceful demonstrators, the complete absence of possibilities for the opposition to campaign, and the attacks on media including the blowing up of radio stations, all of which render any elections to take place in the near future completely invalid, are utterly unacceptable. i acknowledge that the eu is already offering important support to burundi – in the last edf programme we doubled our aid to the country and the external action service have announced eur 1.5 million to support the region in assisting refugees fleeing repression. some are calling into question whether we should continue this support given the government’s behaviour, but i would argue that nor the people in burundi, nor countries in the neighbourhood, should pay for the actions of a repressive regime. that is why i call on the commission and high representative to keep up current engagements, while exploring ways to make sure the funds are implemented to the direct benefit of the people of burundi, not their irresponsible leadership.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on burundi as the crisis in the country, that erupted following the decision of president nkurunziza to try to seek a third term, urgently needs to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ as the eu’s chief election observer i fully endorse the view in this resolution that ‘the elections held in burundi on 29 june 2015 cannot be considered free, fair, credible and inclusive because the election process was seriously marred by restrictions on independent media, excessive use of force against demonstrators, a climate of intimidation for opposition parties and civil society and a lack of confidence in the election authorities, and urges the burundian authorities to postpone the presidential elections of 15 july 2015 and to involve all the stakeholders in the efforts to create an environment conducive to a peaceful, credible, free and fair electoral process.’
in writing. ‒ i would like to confirm that my vote on this subject was to abstain, and i did so on the grounds that whilst the report contained aspects which i support, i also believe that foreign policy should be the preserve of the member states.
in writing. ‒ had i been present for this vote, i would have abstained on the grounds that, whilst the report contained aspects which i support, i believe that foreign policy should be the preserve of the member states. i am deeply saddened that the concept of death camps, which we all hoped and prayed had finished forever after world war ii, returned to the former yugoslavia so recently.
in writing. ‒ in 2004 the icty ruled that the massacre of the enclave’s male inhabitants constituted genocide, a crime under international law. the forcible transfer of between 25 000 and 30 000 bosniak women, children and elderly which accompanied the massacre was found to be confirming evidence of the genocidal intent of members of the vrs. a year later the then-secretary general of the united nations kofi annan said the un’s failure to protect the people of srebrenica would haunt the organisation forever. the ecr supports efforts to bring peace and stability to the balkans, and to foster reconciliation between communities and religious groups.
in writing. ‒ as we commemorate the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica genocide, we honour the memory of the victims and pay tribute to the fortitude of their families in seeking justice. it shames the world that it failed to protect so many innocent civilians. it is disappointing that the un failed to pass this resolution. in light of this we renew our determination never to let forces of prejudice, hatred and evil go unchecked. while we commemorate the past, we keep our eyes firmly on the future of bosnia, and the region. our duty is to strengthen our efforts to promote education, remembrance and research about srebrenica and other genocides. we remain fully committed to bosnia and herzegovina being part of the eu, together with other western balkan nations. the european path is the best way to move forward beyond the tragedies of the past. we urge the leaders of bosnia to work together to make the country a safe and prosperous place, for this will be the lasting tribute to the srebrenica victims. our hearts and thoughts will always be with them.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution which ‘stresses that the timely prevention and effective punishment of genocides and crimes against humanity should count among the eu’s main priorities’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on srebrenica. we must always remember the 8 000 innocent men and boys who were murdered in a brazen act that shocked the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to honour the memory of the victims and pay tribute to the fortitude of their families in seeking justice. this resolution highlights the necessity of future generations understanding the causes of such massacres and build societies based on trust, inclusivity and celebration of diversity.
author.– mr president, bahrain is a clear ally of the european union and an important partner in the region, and it could be a good news story for human rights within the middle east. there has been progress: there is ongoing dialogue, and it is important that we recognise that there are allies for progress, human rights and reforms within the bahraini authorities. indeed i suspect that, left to their own devices, they would come up with a considerably better solution than we see from the continuing outside interference – notably from saudi arabia and iran – within their internal affairs. but where we recognise the progress being made within bahrain, it is also important that we recognise failures and shortcomings. nabeel rajab’s case is emblematic, but that is the point – it is emblematic of many more cases of repression and abuse of human rights. we call for all charges to be dropped. but in the time that is available, i will address my remarks to colleagues from the epp and the ecr colleagues. it is a matter of great regret that you did not feel fit to support this joint motion for a resolution, which is balanced and fair. i would say that this house is only so credible, and we are even less credible in the eyes of our interlocutors when we do not speak with one voice. i would urge you to support the joint motion for resolution. human rights watch has already been in touch with you, and they say it better than i can: ‘a weak, divided reaction to one of the worst crackdowns on human rights defenders, political activists, journalists and religious leaders, who are threatened, persecuted and tortured simply for having peacefully exercised their freedom of expression and assembly, would be unworthy of the reputation of a major human rights watchdog built by the parliament over the years’. i would urge you to support this balanced and fair resolution, so that we can make some progress with our friends in bahrain.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, it is quite clear that the events in bahrain have been – and continue to be – disturbing, creating a climate of fear: fear of prosecution and fear of violence – and some fear for their lives. yet the european union is doing nothing to stop these events but is in fact funding and supporting their continuation. over the past years the people of bahrain have been calling out for fair democracy, a fair voting system and free speech – many people, including this individual that we are talking about today. he, like others, has faced imprisonment, loss of citizenship and police brutality. the eu should not be supporting these acts but, regretfully, it does, via the member states’ trade policies. last year the european union member states – not just the united kingdom – was involved with over eur 2.6 billion worth of trade with bahrain, despite the mass mistreatment of the people and the complete avoidance of recognisable democratic progress. these trade figures are bad enough but, if you look further, there is an additional eur 15 million alone worth of arms and ammunition sales. collectively the european union stands upon its moral high horse, as usual, on one hand, whilst perversely facilitating the climate of fear to continue. we may well grandstand, condemning the actions and events happening in this country, but it is the european union that is effectively supporting those horrible acts and this prosecution case. (the speaker refused to take a blue card question under rule 162(8)).
mr president, there are clear links between the sporting, business and defence interests of certain governments – such as my own – and the lack of strong action to condemn human rights abuses in bahrain and elsewhere. so we find ourselves here as people who can speak – and we must speak – not only to expose the human rights abuses themselves, but also to expose the hypocrisy of governments, political groups, the defence industry and sporting organisations whose own interests seem to ride roughshod over those who might be imprisoned or tortured for speaking out. the bahraini government would do well to listen to us, because the more they crack down on the freedom of speech, the more we will speak up about what they are doing. they risk nabeel rajab becoming a cause célèbre, because there is a move afoot to put his name forward for the sakharov prize. so i would urge the bahraini authorities to listen to the voices from this house today and to do the right thing.
mr president, this report is not perfect, but the principle is vital. i hope that i stand with everyone else in this chamber when i say that the death penalty for practising christians anywhere in the world is completely unacceptable. you know that i am a ukip member of the european parliament, and you know that i am opposed to the european union, so my next words may surprise you. i will be voting in favour of this resolution, and i urge the whole of this chamber to do likewise.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, for the ecr, wto compliance was the most important point and, as a result, we can therefore support the deletion of the mrm exemption. it was also vitally important for us that we clarified the wording around the inuit exemption so that they cannot only eat the seals that they hunt, but also make a living from those seal products. this is vitally important for the survival of inuit communities, particularly in greenland, where there is no other source of income. we have also upheld the original seal ban and the eu’s commitment to strong animal welfare legislation from the original ban a few years ago. from the ecr point of view that is also very important. finally, in line with the ecr commitment for better regulation, i think it is vitally important that we have now put requirements on the commission to study the effect of these changes, and particularly the effect of the changes in relation to the previous legislation so that we can go forward with better legislation in the future. so from the ecr group, we supported the commission proposal, we are supportive of the agreement and we think this is a good step for the future.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, whilst i appreciate that changes to the legislation on seal products are based on world trade organisation recommendations and serve the intention of better welfare and the protection of seals, i am deeply concerned about the impact that this will have on the inuit communities whom these changes will also largely affect. notably, my concerns lie with the lack of impact assessments carried out prior to tomorrow’s vote. in 2009, when the exemption for inuit communities was first established, a key priority of parliament was to ensure that negative impacts would not occur for the inuit communities, who for hundreds of years have relied on seal hunting as a means of providing food, warmth and economic prosperity. however, like many things that come from this parliament, this was not the end result. recent figures from greenland have shown that the ban has had an overwhelmingly negative effect on those communities. to ensure that continued or additional negative impacts from future changes do not take place, we must ensure that the livelihoods of the inuit are held in the same high regard as the welfare of the seals. with this in mind, it is therefore imperative that the welfare of the group is not sacrificed one for the other.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, this place talks a lot about fundamental rights. the idea might be novel to some of the countries represented here, given their recent histories, but we have fundamental rights in england established over centuries. we recently celebrated the 800th anniversary of magna carta, a key milestone in that process. our rights were further established under such things as habeas corpus, the english common law and the bill of rights of 1689, to name just three. but the fundamental rights of the english are being destroyed and swept away by eu law. the eu is creating its own system of criminal law, a process which it euphemistically and laughably calls creating an area of freedom, security and justice. well, it may be news to people here, but we have had one in the uk for centuries. under a european arrest warrant, for example, any british citizen can now be arrested and imprisoned on the basis of vague accusations, with no prima facie evidence against them, and a british court is powerless to prevent this happening. under the common recognition of fines and confiscation orders, an eu state may confiscate the assets of a british citizen without a british court having any power to prevent it. soon it will be possible to compel british police forces to investigate british citizens on behalf of foreign police forces under the proposed european investigation order. all of these are fundamental breaches of the bill of rights. if the british want to protect their own fundamental rights, then they need to leave the european union. if you want to learn something about those rights, come and study the english system.
blue-card question.– you raise a point which so often comes up with the frequent hot air in this chamber when people argue about the way we have to travel between brussels and strasbourg. you raise a very valid point about this huge expense – this huge waste. but could i perhaps take your suggestion a step further? of course, we have the mothballed chamber over in luxembourg as well. we have this huge amount of waste – and is it not symptomatic of this place that we have a lot of hot air: a lot of people coming forward and saying we have to do the right things? well, perhaps we should start practising what we preach and actually look very closely into the money that is being squandered by this institution, as it has been signing off its own accounts for 19 years.
mr president, the situation of fundamental rights in the eu is wholly unacceptable. compassionate protection and the promotion of rights to life, dignity and freedoms, such as asylum, are being undermined, if not ignored, in the current context of the ongoing humanitarian refugee crisis. rather than approaching this crisis with humanity, a fortress europe is heavily financed, and indecent and dehumanising language, border fences, tear gas, religious discrimination and the shirking of responsibility are comfortably adopted. only the solemn protection of fundamental rights can resolve this crisis. that can be accomplished by providing safe and legal access, scrapping the dublin regulations, and empowering and encouraging member states to take a progressive and humane approach to the most pressing humanitarian crisis the world faces. clearly we will not uphold fundamental human rights or resolve the refugee crisis by dropping more bombs on syria. enforcing fundamental human rights is crucially important, and therefore i thank the rapporteur and the shadows for their sterling work.
blue-card question.– i wonder if madam winberg would agree with me that saudi arabia and the gulf states should be doing more to set up camps in turkey rather than displace large numbers of people, and that they should be helping their fellow muslims. i think it is a disgrace that they are not doing more and that britain is doing more than any of them. i wonder if she agrees with me about that.
mr president, the commission released a package of measures against aggressive tax planning just before the summer, and we have all now had time to digest them. although many are welcome, some serious gaps still remain. above all, we need a robust, objective definition of tax havens to underpin the list produced by the commission; we need concrete measures to stop those who use tax havens benefiting from eu funds; and we need protection for those whistleblowers who have done so much to lift the lid on aggressive tax planning in europe. in addition, the commission must not create new loopholes with the new loss adjustment mechanism it has proposed. parliament’s special committee on corporate tax has, for the first time, provided democratic oversight of the activities of tax authorities, which until now have largely been hidden from their domestic populations. i hope that while the commission follows up the welcome proposals in its own tax package it will look seriously at the proposals now emanating from that special committee on tax rulings and the report on tax matters being produced by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. our constituents demand nothing less.
mr president, the biggest problem facing my constituents in london is the unavailability of affordable housing. there are thousands of people on the public housing waiting lists in every one of the 33 london boroughs. most people have no chance of being allocated housing or, at least, they will have to wait very many years. now david cameron has said that we are going to take 20 000 of the syrian migrants over the next five years and this will be on top of the one million or so migrants that come to britain every three to four years. since mass migration is not going to stop any time soon, where are we going to put them all? let me offer a solution. england is a very densely populated country. scotland, on the other hand, is a very sparsely populated country. there is plenty of space to build new towns and cities in scotland to accommodate the uk’s ever-growing population. i am sure that the generous scottish people and their political representatives in the scottish national party would welcome such an exciting and humanitarian policy.
mr president, the refugee crisis is a massive challenge for europe, but let us not forget that it is an even bigger challenge for lebanon, jordan and turkey. but, on our side in europe, have we met a common challenge with a common response? no. too many governments, far from recognising that, whether we like it or not, we are facing a common problem, are trying to pass the problem on to their neighbour. but, worst of all, there are those – for instance in my country – who are trying to play political games with this tragic humanitarian situation. some of them, with a view to our forthcoming referendum, are trying to blame the eu’s freedom of movement for this crisis. it is, of course, nothing to do with the eu’s freedom of movement. these are not eu citizens. they are refugees fleeing wars from outside. it is, though, a situation that would exist as a common challenge whether the eu existed or not. it is high time they started looking at the eu as a provider of.... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur.– mr president, sometimes what we do here is an example that national parliaments might consider emulating – just sometimes – and, in my view, the process we have of holding public hearings of candidates for the commission, before we take our vote of confidence on the commission as a whole, is an example that they might consider. just imagine how it would be if, when a government takes office in a national parliament, each minister, before taking office, had to go for a three-hour public grilling, with incisive questioning. i think it would be revealing. we do it here, and it is to our credit, but what we do can always be improved, and my report has been about looking at how we operate this system and making a number of suggestions for improvement. let me highlight just three. the first is about the questioning – the incisive nature of the questions. we had at the last hearings, i think, 42 questions by individual members to commissioners and 42 answers. i propose that we cut that number to about 25, but allow each questioner to come back with a follow-up question. that would be more incisive: it would permit a real to and fro. the purpose of the hearings is not to give the floor to a maximum number of members: the purpose is to get precise information and answers out of the candidate commissioners. the second proposal to improve things is to look at how we evaluate the commissioners after the hearings. at the moment, the coordinators from each group have a meeting, but our rules are not very clear on this. indeed, our rules as they currently read could require a vote in every single committee, on every single commissioner, at the request of just one political group. i do not think that is wise because formally, legally, the only vote that matters is the vote by parliament as a whole on the commission as a whole. the vote by individual committees on individual commissioners has no legal consequence. therefore, we have to make sure it has political consequences and carries weight. in other words, a vote should be taken on a commissioner only in a case of genuine doubt, and not as a matter of routine. then, if as we have seen in the past there is a negative verdict, it will have consequences. that is how i think we should proceed, and my report proposes to clarify the procedures in that regard. a final point i would mention is the question of gender balance in the commission. this parliament has always attached importance to improving the gender imbalance that has existed up to now, but of course we are tied by the nominations that come from national governments if they all nominate just one candidate. last time, however, there was at least one country which nominated two and allowed the president of the commission to choose. why do we not institutionalise that and propose – as a parliament we can only propose in this case – that each country’s government nominates two candidate commissioners at least, one of each gender, two people in whom the national government has full confidence? the commission president would then be in a better position to get gender balance in the team as a whole, and that would go some way to improving the balance. there are some other suggestions in this report, but those are three worth highlighting. i urge colleagues to read the other suggestions as well because they all would improve the situation.
mr president, i respect mr corbett’s attempt to make the commission a little more accountable, even if it is merely a drop in the ocean. there are some good suggestions here and also in the committee opinions. allowing follow-up questions and genuine scrutiny is a great idea, for example. and, who knows, if we introduce something like that in the european parliament itself, we might get something approaching a real debate here too. but we are completely ignoring the elephant in the chamber. commissioners hold huge power and yet we are given the opportunity to interview just one potential candidate. i can think of another union which used to love elections with just one candidate. ultimately, though, the problem is that it is we, here in this chamber, who give away those positions of huge power. the people have no say. unelected commissioners are unaccountable commissioners.
rapporteur.– mr president, i did save one minute of my speaking time to be able to come back at the end, but i will be very brief. firstly, i am pleased that i gather there is quite a high level of consensus between the groups in parliament on what i have proposed. i was also delighted that mr timmermans, for the commission, went through in detail some of the things that i did not have time to cover in my speech, and that the commission is very supportive of the thrust of what i propose – indeed, almost everything, bearing in mind his caveat that the devil can sometimes be in the detail. i am very glad of that support. i thank him very much, and may i at the same time thank him for his earlier speech, which was an exemplary reply in the previous debate on human rights.
madam president, there is actually quite a lot of good stuff in this report. i believe that we must take great care to avoid unnecessary censorship – particularly of the internet – although i personally believe that is best achieved through national governments, rather than through eu diktat. however, i would like to draw your attention to paragraph 17 of the report. this paragraph is all about the politicisation of trade. it is about imposing our western values upon third countries as a condition of trade with developing nations. to me this is not only unacceptable but also supremely arrogant because it assumes that we know better than developing countries what their laws should be, and that we can tell them what they ought to be doing. this is riding roughshod over their sovereignty, and i cannot support a report which contains such phrasing.
madam president, i suppose one of the biggest problems with these five-minute debates is that we cannot adequately do justice to a subject – 31 pages of a report in a 60—second speech. i agree that tidal power is the future, but i hope that we can learn from the mistakes of wind power. it is best to get the research and cost correct first and then introduce a new technology, not the other way around. i believe we are getting towards that point with tidal power and we need to continue the research. i will just pick up one other point that i have time for: the suggestion to move to liquefied natural gas as a transitional fuel to help the environment. the word ‘transitional’ implies that it will require more than one change in an industry which, frankly, certainly in the uk, is already on its knees, so i would urge extreme caution in that because we do not want to sleepwalk into creating unemployment.
madam president, some of the challenges in this report are common to all member states in europe, while other vary from one member state to another. i will talk a little bit about the situation in the united kingdom. we actually have a very good quality education system in the uk but quite often we educate in the wrong way, in the wrong things. we push almost half of all young people to go to university but actually, in fact, there are not that many graduate—level jobs available. we need to be doing more of this kind of thing: we need to be promoting entrepreneurship, we need to be promoting the kind of skills, the kind of training, that are going to develop young people in the right direction. paragraph 43 of this report urges the commission to ensure nothing impedes the free movement of workers, but often that does impact on young people and takes young people away from employment when it allows older people coming into the country the opportunity to take advantage and compete for the same jobs, and they often win.
madam president, i am at a loss for how to vote on this one, because i agree with so much of what the rapporteur says. i agree: water is a human right. i agree that public services must be exempted from the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) – it is something which simply should not be negotiable. i agree that water must be a natural monopoly, personally. i share a lot of the concerns about foreign aid and helping with water supplies in the poorest countries, and we have a citizens’ initiative, where over a million-and-a-half citizens in europe have petitioned – and yet fewer than 15 people are here today to debate it. we have had so much contact from constituents, and i support all that. at the same time, as somebody who is opposed to the european union in principle, i have concerns about eu money, about nation states’ rights, about the direction of travel for more europe. i genuinely do not know how i am going to vote on this one.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade.– mr president, millions across europe are saying that they will not accept global trade any more if it means trading away the rules and standards we hold dearly. in showing that we can still decide for ourselves and keep – or even strengthen – the protections that we deem necessary, while of course respecting our international commitments, this legislation demonstrates that we can regulate globalisation for the benefit of people and the planet. in the committee on international trade we reviewed this proposal to ensure that it was absolutely compatible with wto rules. we even found that we could go further than the commission had initially proposed and ban not just the cloned animals, but also their offspring. this is an important piece of legislation and it bears witness to the crucial role that the eu plays and must play to protect our citizens in our rapidly changing world.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, while there is support in parliament for a ban, there is much disagreement about how long that ban should last and how far it will go. when it comes to eu policy—making our core guiding principles should be quite simple: follow the science. evidence-based policy—making should be at the heart of what we do. for example, we have to take into account the impact of a ban if it were to include germinal products of cloned animals – their descendants – and embryo clones. that could have serious consequences for animal breeders and scientific research in europe. in 2008, the european food safety authority (efsa) found no indication of any differences in food safety between food products from healthy cloned animals compared to those from conventionally—bred animals. a ban on the import of these products would be challenged according to the existing wto rules. this is a very sensitive issue, i am aware of that, and there are legitimate concerns about animal welfare. however, i feel that this report very much extends the scope of the commission’s original proposal, it is legally unenforceable and quite frankly a piece of legislation we could do without.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, as a ukip mep i really do not want to see any more eu legislation on anything at all. we do not need eu legislation on what british farmers can do and on what british consumers can eat – but ‘british’ consumers is the key word: it is up to them. if british consumers do not want to eat clones and the products of clones, they can make their wishes known to the retailers, as they did about battery chickens 40 or 50 years ago. the retailers can then incorporate non-cloning into their assurance schemes and this will guarantee that there are more british products on british supermarket shelves. that is the way to approach it. in any case, i do not think cloning is going to catch on to any great degree for two reasons. the first is that it assumes perfection – that you have ‘got there’ – when in fact there is always somebody somewhere who will produce something better, and the clone becomes redundant. the second reason i do not think it will catch on is because of the difficulties involved. we have heard about the deformities and mortality. these represent costs, and it is quite likely these costs will outweigh any benefit of cloning. finally, i would like to say that we should never dismiss a technology out of hand. i can visualize a scenario where cloning might be quite useful. imagine a livestock disease sweeps across europe from asia, most of european livestock are naive to the infection, but a few will survive it. these can be cloned and thus you can protect the species.
mr president, i personally do not object to animal cloning in principle – unlike most of my colleagues it seems. but i do believe that the disproportionate call for a permanent ban could be damaging, because there is this big assumption that cloning can only lead to bad things. what about the possibilities that cloning and scientific advance can lead to an improvement in animal welfare? now, that has not happened yet, i fully admit. but that does not mean to say it will not happen; what is the sense of closing the door entirely with a permanent ban when we could go down the road of a temporary ban – which is what i will be supporting in the amendments – which would have to be reviewed on a regular basis, would give the opportunity for industry to go forward and start working without the possibility that they will never be able to bring any of their advances to market. i do not understand why this house wants to be so absolute without looking to the future with open minds.
madam president, there is deep unease amongst the british public at the idea of cloned animals and this unease is shared by the wider european public. we have seen that reflected in the chamber today in the comments made by colleagues from across the european union. it is not only a concern about the food that we eat, it is also a concern about the potential wider impact on nature of cloned animals and their offspring – and we have heard from colleagues this morning how cloned animals do indeed suffer. a growing world population does indeed present challenges for food supply, but cloning animals is not the answer. rather, a move to a more sustainable approach to the entire food chain would benefit the customer, the farmer and the environment – a sustainable future, yes; a cloned future, no.
madam president, livestock farming in my constituency, the west midlands, is valued at gbp 1.16 billion, with 2% of the west midlands workforce employed in the agriculture sector. accordingly, this contentious issue has the ability to directly affect the livelihood of many of my constituents who live in rural communities across the west midlands, from the staffordshire moorlands to the vale of evesham and the welsh marches. this debate must always be driven and informed by science and the knowledge and best practice that our agriculture sector has, and certainly not profit-driven by multinational corporations looking to decrease production costs, potentially at the expense and health of the consumer. we must be very careful on this path, and if cloned meat is to be used in meats and animal products, it should always be clearly labelled so that the consumer can always make a proper and informed choice on what they decide to eat. i have received over 1 000 emails from my constituents on this issue, making clear how this issue directly concerns the british electorate. accordingly, it should be debated and voted on in the british parliament, whose members are elected and accountable – unlike the european commissioner. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for their work on finding a sensible agreement with the council on this one. the revision to the regulation will help close loopholes, for example those allowing false declarations of transported goods. detected fraud in the eu was over eur 107 million in 2011, and the true losses for member states are likely to be much, much more. the changes agreed here should also reduce unnecessary bureaucracy and speed up mechanisms in place for tackling customs fraud. they also safeguard national competences, giving member states two weeks to get the information from operators who are subject to investigations before the commission can get involved. the report also includes data protection and data confidentiality parts. in line with the ecr commitment to better regulation, i am glad to see the two-year revision clause included in this regulation. this will require the commission to assess if the data exchange provisions are sufficient, and that is a good basis for us to work from. so, from the ecr our side, we can support this.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, for this proposal at second reading we have tabled a complete rejection of the whole idea. this is for two reasons. the first is because we, the elected members of this parliament, have the duty to be held accountable to our electorate who democratically elected us here to represent them. i firmly believe that we owe it to our constituents to see how their representatives have voted. sadly, due to the democratic process in the eu, this can only be achieved by tabling a complete rejection of the proposal. the second reason for rejecting the proposal is because we are opposed to this over-reaction to customs fraud, and to the centralisation of powers and delegation to the commission that this report brings. do not get me wrong: i am absolutely in support of combating customs-related fraud, but i am wholly against this proposal, which serves only to plaster over the cracks and does not address the origins of the customs-related fraud. to deal with customs-related fraud issues is not to add bureaucracy and burdens for member states, but to question the fundamental pillars of the single market, the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital between member states by establishing and maintaining a database that will contain detailed information on imports, exports and transit of goods, including those within a member state. the eu is raising great data protection concerns for businesses, to say nothing of the additional costs that come as a result of starting up a project like this. we are, as sovereign nations should of course be, encouraging greater mutual assistance and cooperation in the second fight against fraud but i say it once again: this does not require a centralised eu database to be established. the whole approach to combating customs-related fraud feels awfully similar to the idea of using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. once again this is just another example of the eu using an economic problem as an excuse to increase harmonisation, and this is not something that i can support.
madam president, before the customs union existed, businesses trading within europe faced a mountain of paperwork and different levies at every border. the single market, through its common customs code, has removed costs, which has helped to boost trade and drive economic growth. however, a breach at customs in one country, especially false or fake goods, can have repercussions across all 28 member states – and that affects consumers. this report updates a framework which was first set in 1997. it will make it easier for those in our ports and airports to check that goods really are what they claim to be. parliament’s approach has been to simplify and speed up mechanisms for combating customs fraud without adding unnecessary and repetitive bureaucracy. member states remain responsible for initial investigations, and it is only when that fails that the commission comes in. on that basis, i support this report. however, a common approach to customs code is not an indication that i would support common taxation on other matters. taxation is, and should remain, a member state competency.
in writing. ‒ of course, member states should be allowed to sign up to this convention. i want the united kingdom to sign up to it. however, i reject the notion that this is an exclusive eu competence; it is not, and the house of commons’ position is that it is not. consent is not required, and i abstained therefore on technical grounds.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu taking any action on the international stage as it should be elected and accountable national governments that take these decisions. we also agree with a house of commons note which objects to the eu having sole competence in this area of social policy. however, we do not want to oppose a measure authorising member states to sign up to the ilo protocol. we also note that either way the uk will sign up in its own right. for these reasons i abstained. the issue itself is very important and we agree that stronger measures must be taken to combat forced labour, the best of which would be to leave the eu as freedom of movement laws make it easier for criminal gangs to traffic people across europe.
in writing. ‒ this vote relates to the eu authorising member states to sign up to new international (non-eu) rules on forced labour. the eu cannot sign these in their own right, and, as it covers aspects of existing eu law, the eu needs to authorise member states to sign up. however the uk house of commons issued a note stating its objection, as it does not agree that the eu has exclusive competence in this area, hence their belief that the eu does not need to ‘authorise’ member states to do anything. on the one hand i do not recognise the right of the eu to say what we can and cannot do, but i abstained on this matter because i am vehemently opposed to forced labour. her majesty’s government have indicated that they intend to sign up, by their own right. i support such a decision.
in writing. ‒ ukip do not believe that the eu needs to authorise any national government activity. since the uk has said it intends to sign up to this in its own right, the eu’s involvement is unnecessary and irrelevant.
in writing. ‒ it is the 21st century, yet 21 million people are still performing forced labour. they are modern slaves, generating usd 150 billion for the criminal networks that exploit them on an annual basis. this has to end. that is why it voted in favour of the le hyaric report and its call for the authorisation of opening negotiations on the ilo’s 2014 protocol on the forced labour convention. we need new tools and resources for combating forced labour. but most vital will be coordination amongst member states. if we really want to eradicate slavery, and stop the exploitation of workers that is undercutting the wages of others, member states simply cannot go at it alone, in spite of best intentions. they can only make a change if they act together, for example by adopting stronger rules across europe to prevent undercutting, and strengthening the agency workers and posted workers directives. i call on member states to do so, so that we can make slavery history.
in writing. ‒ labour rights are among the main pillars of decent work, and the main instrument for combating exploitation through work. by voting in favour of the report, labour meps called for the authorisation of the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930, as one of the most important tools for the defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ along with my socialist colleagues, i voted to authorise the ratification of this ilo convention on forced labour. it is a disgrace that 21 million people are performing forced labour today. this is a highly exploitative practice which generates billions of euros for those who manage it. it is therefore important that we, as meps, give member states the go-ahead to ratify this international agreement.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu taking any action on the international stage as it should be for elected and accountable national governments to decide. we also agree with a house of commons note which objects to the eu having sole competence in this area of social policy. however, we do not want to oppose a measure authorising member states to sign up to the ilo protocol. we also note that either way the uk will sign up in its own right anyway. for these reasons i abstained. the issue itself is very important and we agree that stronger measures must be taken to combat forced labour, the best of which would be to leave the european union, as freedom of movement laws make it easier for criminal gangs to traffic people across europe and force them to work.
in writing. ‒ forced labour and human trafficking are massive global problems in the 21st century, and we must work together collectively to eliminate modern day slavery. this protocol sets out real measures to be taken which will go some way to assist these efforts and i support this report without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ labour rights are among the main pillars of decent work and are the main instrument for combating exploitation through work. i strongly supported the report as it calls for the authorisation of the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930, as one of the most important tools for the defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ forced labour breaches human rights and is an affront to the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. that is why i am delighted to vote for this proposal. the ilo’s protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930, updates the convention, equipping it with new tools for combating forced labour and making it legally binding.
in writing. ‒ labour rights are among the main pillars of decent work and are the main instrument for combating exploitation through work. labour meps called today for the authorisation of the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930, as one of the most important tools for the defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as i do not believe this is an eu competency.
in writing. ‒ labour rights are among the main pillars of decent work, and the main instrument for combating exploitation through work. the labour party in this parliament called today for authorisation of the protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930, as one of the most important tools for the defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i am not certain of the grounds on which speeding could be considered as part of fulfilling the duties of an mep, especially under the circumstances described to me.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on this matter, as i believe that this is a matter for the polish courts, and this intended prosecution has nothing whatsoever to do with this member’s parliamentary duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal and agree that the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke should be waived.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the committee on legal affairs’ recommendation that parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons in the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the committee on legal affairs’ recommendation that parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i agree with the decision of the committee on legal affairs on this matter and that janusz korwin-mikke have his parliamentary immunity waived.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, in order to reject the council position and close the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, in order to reject the council position and close the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will ensure a higher level of consumer protection and establish better fraud prevention in the transit system of goods across borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as it will ensure a higher level of consumer protection and establish better fraud prevention in combating practices in the transit system of goods across borders.
in writing. ‒ this legislation will help strengthen the security of products circulating within the eu and will contribute to the fight against fraud and tax evasion. i am therefore able to support the outcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as it will ensure a higher level of consumer protection and establish better fraud prevention in combating practices in the transit system of goods across borders.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it will ensure a higher level of consumer protection and establish better fraud prevention in combating practices in the transit system of goods across borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it is a rejection of an eu council position.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report, because the compromise between the european parliament and the council of ministers will ensure a higher level of consumer protection and establish better fraud prevention and combating practices in the transit system of goods across borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will ensure a higher level of consumer protection and establish better fraud prevention in combating practices in the transit system of goods across borders.
mr president, since the eu ban on the trade in seal products in 2009, more than two million seals have been saved from being clubbed or shot and left to bleed to death, but an unnecessary exemption on small-scale hunts has meant that too many seals have still suffered a horrible death without any reason. that is why i voted in favour of the buşoi report on trade in seal products: so that the eu can help bring an end to this. i applaud the swift negotiations that took place on this issue between the council, parliament and the commission. it shows that when we pull in the same direction the eu can take swift action to uphold the values that matter to our citizens and encourage our national governments and commission to demonstrate this, the same positivity and decisive action, in many other fields of importance – especially in animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the commission should be interfering with the lives of indigenous communities. however, i support the wto recommendations. i therefore abstained on the motion.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the commission should be interfering in the lives of indigenous communities. however, i support the wto recommendations. i therefore abstained on the motion.
in writing. ‒ whilst we do not support the commission interfering in the livelihoods of the inuit communities, the report is following wto recommendations and does, ultimately, increase the protection of seals.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal which amends regulation 1007/2009 brings the eu into compliance with the wto and thereby enables the european union to fulfil its international obligations. given that neither of the revised exemptions have been, or are envisaged to be in operation in the uk, the report does not substantially affect the ban on trade in seal products and therefore does not present any significant difficulties. in fact, since seals are a species that is highly susceptible to pain and distress, the modification of the ic exemption is a welcome and necessary alteration, providing assurance of more humane treatment and practices in relation to seal hunting. as some 900 000 seals are hunted each year across the globe with around one third of world trade in seal products either passing through or ending up in the eu market, eu member states have a duty to protect against the unnecessary suffering of seals and this report can serve as an example to the rest of world. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as, since the introduction of the ban in 2009, more than two million seals have been saved from being clubbed to death or shot and left to bleed to death. this vote will reinforce a more stringent eu ban and uphold eu citizens’ values on animal rights.
in writing. ‒ more than two million seals have been saved from being clubbed to death or shot since the introduction of the eu ban on the trade in seal products in 2009. i believe this vote to end the trade in seal products will reinforce a more stringent eu ban and uphold our values on animal welfare. the only way such bans work is through cooperation and international action, and on issues like this the eu has led the way.
in writing. ‒ since the introduction of the ban in 2009 more than two million seals have been saved from being clubbed to death or shot and left to bleed to death. i strongly supported the report, as it will reinforce a more stringent eu ban and uphold eu citizens’ values on animal rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal to bring our regulation banning the sale of seal products into line with wto rules. i am delighted that in its ruling the wto made it clear that ‘the protection of public morality’ can be a legitimate reason for restricting trade. the mass slaughter of seals in canada clearly does offend european public morality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. since the introduction of the ban in 2009 more than two million seals have been saved from being clubbed to death or shot and left to bleed to death. this vote will reinforce a more stringent eu ban and uphold eu citizens’ values on animal rights.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as i do not believe this is an eu competency.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report because i want to see more protection given to these endangered creatures. already, we have seen the extinction of the caribbean monk seal in the middle of the 20th century, the overhunting into extinction of the japanese sea lion in the 1970s. many more species of seal are now critically endangered. however, since the introduction of the ban in 2009, more than 2 million seals have been saved from being clubbed to death or shot and left to bleed to death. i believe that this vote will further reinforce protection for the rights of this creature.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report. it strengthens the original legislation put in place in 2009 which has saved more than two million seals from being clubbed to death or shot and left to bleed to death. this vote will reinforce a more stringent eu ban and uphold eu citizens’ values on animal rights.
in writing. ‒ i was proud to vote in favour of the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) which strengthens the eu’s stance on the sale of seal products. by calling for the removal of the marine resources management (mrm) exception, we are not only making our legislation more efficient, we are also preventing further challenges to our ban from non-eu countries in the world trade organization. in so doing, we are placing our relationship with our international partners on surer foundations. i also voted to strengthen the protection on the hunting practices of the inuit peoples, to aid in the preservation of their unique way of life. since the introduction of the eu-wide ban in 2009 more than two million seals have been saved from an inhumane death. it is an honour to reinforce this ban and uphold the values of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the eu banned trade in seal products in 2009 as the result of animal welfare concerns. labour meps voted for this report to strengthen the 2009 ban, aligning it with world trade organisation (wto) standards by removing exemptions for small-scale hunts. since the existing eu ban came into force in 2009, two million seals have been saved from being clubbed to death or shot and left to bleed to death. millions more seals will continue to be saved from this gruesome practice by a reinforced eu ban. the only way a ban can work is through cooperation and international action, and on issues like this the eu has led the way, reflecting eu citizens’ concerns for animal rights.
mr president, i fully support the moi-sommer report on cloning of animals, and i do this with the overwhelming backing of hundreds of my constituents, who are deeply concerned at the consequences of cloning for animal welfare and the sustainability of our food production. that is why i urge the commission to go much further than its initial proposal and completely ban the use of animal cloning in farms. i also call on our member states to ensure that cloned animals, their offspring and products derived from them cannot be imported into our market. rather than hurting farmers and consumers, these measures will benefit them, given that they reassert to the world our leading animal welfare and food standards. thanks to the single market, the eu has the opportunity to answer citizens’ concerns, protect biodiversity and promote high global standards.
mr. chairman, i support a ban on animal cloning. i'm a big opponent of that. i'm not interested in economic parameters, for me it's a purely ethical issue. animals are not things, and it's been clearly demonstrated that when animals are cloned, they suffer tremendously. i think that the european union should go further in this matter in the future, that we should really support a total ban on cloning and a total ban on the import of products from cloned animals. if we do not accept the ethical level that an animal is not a thing, that it cannot be treated arbitrarily, and if we do not treat animals decently, then i believe that we can hardly defend the concept of a mature modern legal europe. instead, we should be looking to the future to improve the living conditions of animals, to treat animals better, and not to invent ways to take advantage of them against nature. so i'm in favor of further tightening of the rules in the future.
mr president, i abstained in this vote on the basis that the commission proposal and the proposed amendments do not reflect an adequate response to the issues around the cloning of animals. there are a wide range of concerns relating to animal welfare, scientific evidence, public perception, and the purpose of animal cloning, all of which need real and meaningful solutions. these must be based on science, labelling and public awareness, while ensuring that all imports reach eu standards and respect a level playing field for our farmers. it is fair to say that this is a very emotive issue and we should continue to form an adequate solution. europe has yet to strike a balance between public concern and science on a wide range of issues, not just animal cloning.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, as a matter of conscience on cloning.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, as a matter of conscience on cloning.
in writing. ‒ this is an attempt to impose a blanket prohibition by means of an eu regulation on 500 million people which will have an impact on long-term competitiveness at a time when people need productivity and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i personally do not object to animal cloning in principle. i do believe however, that the disproportionate call for a permanent ban could be damaging, since this is based on a big, overarching assumption that cloning can only lead to bad things. what about the possibilities that cloning and scientific advance can lead to an improvement in animal welfare? this report not only disregards evidence-based decision-making in several fundamental aspects; a principle i strongly believe should be at the heart of all eu policymaking, but given the current animal welfare issues identified in the european food safety authority’s 2008 opinion, this report also fails to account for the fact that these animal welfare issues could be significantly alleviated in the future. moreover, as an impact assessment of the proposed traceability system is yet to be conducted, it remains very unclear whether such a mechanism can even be effective. i therefore view this report as legally unenforceable and subsequently wholly ineffective as a piece of legislation. i am consequently disappointed that my fellow elected representatives have been so absolute in the opinions and it is for these reasons that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ labour meps stand firmly against the use of cloning, cloned animals and their offspring. i voted in favour of the report which will in effect benefit eu farmers, food producers and consumers by reinforcing the global outreach of europe’s leading animal welfare and food standards. furthermore, by pursuing a requirement of traceability and labelling, the eu would be able to inflict significant pressure on our partners in any trade negotiations, including ttip.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe the proposal made by the commission should go much further and completely ban the use of cloning in animal production for farm purposes. i believe it should take the form of a regulation. such a prohibition is necessary and in line with the expectations of the public and their concerns about animal welfare conditions and threats to biodiversity. we are demanding that all animals imported into the eu are proven not to be clones or descendants of cloned animals. we need to be confident that no food or germinal products derived from clones are imported into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today’s vote, which hugely adds to the commission's original proposal. there are huge consumer concerns with regard to the cloning process and it is right that experiments in this technology are kept well away from the food chain.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the report and very much welcome its adoption in the european parliament. i am pleased that parliament has gone further than the initial proposal by the commission. i believe that such a prohibition is necessary. it is in line with concerns about the welfare conditions of cloned animals, threats to biodiversity and the current situation in the european agricultural sector, which does not need to resort to cloning in animal reproduction. it will also benefit eu farmers, food producers and consumers by reinforcing the global outreach of europe’s leading animal welfare and food standards. the commission and the authorities of the member states must now enforce this ban, which should apply to the entire eu market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against allowing cloned animals into the food chain both on health and animal welfare grounds.
in writing. ‒ labour meps stand firmly against the use of cloning, cloned animals and their offspring. i voted in favour of the report, which will in effect benefit eu farmers, food producers and consumers by reinforcing the global outreach of europe’s leading animal welfare and food standards. furthermore, by pursuing a requirement of traceability and labelling, the eu would be able to put significant pressure on our partners in any trade negotiations, including ttip.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe a blanket prohibition via regulation will affect competitiveness in the long term.
in writing. ‒ because of the negative effects of cloning on animal welfare, which, amongst other things, greatly outweighs any immediate positive gains, i supported the report because we should prohibit the use of cloning and a ban on the placing of the market of the corresponding products should be put in place until more scientific research and technological progress has been made.
in writing. ‒ a ban on the use of cloning in animal production for farm purposes of all animal species should be introduced. a ban should be created on placing on the market food products derived from animal clones or their descendants, embryo clones and germinal products of animal clones. moreover, eu member states should ensure that all animals imported into the eu are proven not to be clones or descendants thereof, and that no food or germinal products derived from clones or their offspring are imported into the eu. this should apply to the entire eu single market, and that is why i support this report. the prohibition of placing on the eu market of cloned animals, their offspring and products derived from them would entail a requirement for the eu’s trading partners to introduce traceability and labelling requirements akin to those long implemented in the eu. this will in effect benefit eu farmers, food producers and consumers by reinforcing the global outreach of europe’s leading animal welfare and food standards.
in writing. ‒ a provisional ban on cloning animals and placing food from cloned animals on the market is an appropriate step and one that i can support. however, i consider calls to make this ban permanent and widen its scope to cover all species kept and reproduced for farming purposes to be disproportionate. furthermore, i have concerns about the implications of extending the ban to include imports of food produced from the descendants of cloned animals and calls to establish a traceability system at european union level. in my opinion, the report adopted by the committees strays too far from the principle of scientific evidence-based policy-making. i believe any moves to introduce a permanent ban should be based on a full impact assessment of scientific evidence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which advocates the banning of cloned animals and their descendants from sale for consumption in our single market for the next 5 years, as well as completely suspending the use of cloning on farm animals within the eu. this is important, not only to protect consumer standards within the eu but also to offer an incentive to our trading partners to move away from this intensification of the farming process. with the scientific consensus suggesting high health risks for the animals involved, it is crucial that we move to protect animal welfare and preserve the standards of our union. cloning was an awe-inspiring scientific advance, but we must be cautious about its effect on our farming techniques and our health.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted for this report, which calls for a ban on the cloning of farm animals in europe. labour meps believe in making decisions based on facts and, in this case, animal welfare concerns. cloning farm animals might be a scientific advancement, but it has no environmental, social or health benefits. there is substantial evidence that cloned animals and the surrogate mothers who carry them can suffer health and welfare problems. cloning animals for farming purposes takes animal husbandry in entirely the wrong direction, merely making intensive farming even more intensive.
mr president, it pains me to see that, in a union that was born out of the firm will to stand up for democracy and human rights after the second world war, today we find ourselves treading on the rights of those who are fleeing wars instead. it pains me to see that one third of the petitions from citizens received by parliament relate to breaches of fundamental rights. it angers me to learn that many of these revolve around unemployment, precarious work practices and inequality in many of the member states. that is why i supported the ferreira report, and i would urge the commission to adopt an internal strategy and action plan on fundamental rights, put in place an eu mechanism to monitor democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in member states and, vitally, carry out an urgent assessment of the impact of austerity measures on fundamental rights. it is crucial that member states pull together and allow the eu to carry out the role it was created for, namely tackling these injustices.
mr president, the events of recent days in hungary and on the shores of southern europe have highlighted the fact that the plight of those fleeing war-torn communities in syria and elsewhere must not be compared with the ambitions of those economic migrants to whom freedom of movement is not a saviour but an opportunity. the image of a young boy whose body was found on a beach will have left an indelible scar upon even the sternest of minds, and it is right that governments across the eu take action to alleviate what is a humanitarian crisis. in this situation, the right to life must form the core of our response, and i am pleased that the uk prime minister has committed to resettling 20 000 syrian refugees by 2020, many of whom are the most vulnerable that we can imagine. our government is also correct when it stresses that the wider solution to this influx of refugees can come only from aiding peace and stability and upholding the basic rights in societies where the current threat is real. i want to see christians and other religious minorities in these communities empowered by the assurance that they do not have to leave their ancestral homes, and that the international community will support their right to life and freedom of conscience and expression.
mr president, i have just voted against a proposal on human rights put forward in this place. the whole reason for it was simply that the uk does not need to be told about human rights by the eu. over many years, the uk has saved people in europe and the wider world from abuses of human rights. we do not need to be dictated to on this subject. one of the insane proposals that was put forward in this latest idea was to give votes to illegal immigrants. this is the kind of proposal that comes from the eu. this is why the uk does not need the eu and this is why – hopefully very, very soon – in our referendum the uk will leave the eu to these crazy fantasies and crazy ideas and get back to being a beacon of true democracy and true human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it provides a comprehensive overview of the current situation of fundamental rights in the eu. it is particularly strong on calls for enhancing the rights of lgbti citizens and i welcome the calls for a greater understanding of transgender issues. the report is also strong on the rights of women and children. the report calls for ‘life-saving abortion’ to be provided as a right. sinn féin believe that in the case of rape, sexual abuse or incest or where a women’s life is in danger, or in the case of fatal foetal abnormality the option of termination should be available. sexual and reproductive health and rights cannot be reduced to mean abortion. reproductive rights can refer to a range of services covering maternal, post natal, menopausal, reproductive cancers and fertility treatments. it is my party’s and my own view that women should not be denied access to such services.
in writing. ‒ sadly, i could not support this report as too much suggested that matters best decided at member state level should be determined by the european union.
in writing. ‒ with regret, as this report was prepared by a colleague from another delegation, i voted against this report as too much emphasis was placed on the suggestion that matters best decided at member state level should be determined by the european union.
in writing. ‒ while ukip believes in fundamental rights, it does not believe that this should lead to increased federalism and power to the eu which in itself is anti democratic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it covers a range of areas of fundamental rights for a wide number of groups such as children, the lgbti community, religious and ethnic minorities and homeless people. it also addresses issues such as freedom of speech, media freedom, anti-terrorism measures, privacy violations, surveillance and hate speech. in addition, the report includes proposals to revise the dublin regulation particularly in light of the migrant crisis that is occurring in the european union. the report also calls for an assessment of the impact on austerity measures on fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ this report comes at a critical moment when the fundamental rights in the union face a number of challenges. i support, in full, measures to monitor democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in member states. it is imperative that we uphold the rights enshrined in the treaties. as a member of the women’s rights and gender equality committee, i supported the inclusion of a number of proposals to strengthen women’s rights, including action to tackle violence against women.
in writing. ‒ paragraph 42 is fairly straightforward in condemning the rising anti-semitism in europe and attacks on jewish people. paragraph 43 is similarly straightforward in its condemnation of attacks on europe’s islamic communities. what is shocking is that a large number of the ecr group chose to vote against these paragraphs. these votes underline the problem of racism in europe and it is shameful that the uk conservative party allies itself with these racists.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the resolution. it includes a mechanism to monitor and measure infringements of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in eu member states. we have long called for such a mechanism, backed up by increased powers for the commission to issue formal warnings and corrective measures for persistent offenders.
in writing. – whereas the ecr group fully supports fundamental rights, equality and the fight against discrimination for all, there are however, many areas within this report which are not competences of the eu, such as education, prisons, national intelligence services, and a number of issues of conscience. there are also a large number of issues within the report which do not fall within the scope of this report, such as austerity and immigration. the report also calls for the eu to create a new fundamental rights scoreboard and a new infringement procedure mechanism for breaches of fundamental rights, as well as proposing introducing country-by-country monitoring of fundamental rights, which the ecr group does not feel is the most effective way of dealing with fundamental rights breaches within the union. whilst the ecr supports a number of the aims contained within this report, it believes that tackling a large number of these issues is best pursued by the member states. therefore, the ecr group could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. i welcome its emphasis this year on tackling violence against women. violence against women is the most widespread violation of fundamental rights in the eu and throughout the world, and whereas it affects all levels of society, regardless of age, education, income, social position and country of origin or residence, and represents a major barrier to equality between women and men.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it covers a range of areas in fundamental rights of a number of other groups such as children, lgbti-people, religious and ethnic minorities and homeless. it also addresses issues such as freedom of speech, media freedom, anti-terrorism measures, privacy violations, surveillance and hate speech. in addition, the report includes proposals to revise the dublin regulation particularly in light of the migrant crisis that is occurring in the european union. the report also calls for an assessment of the impact on austerity measures on fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as a whole as i believe that it has a pro-federalisation agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report because i feel that breaches of the rule of law in eu member states should be more easily dealt with.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu as it sets out proposals to establish an eu mechanism to monitor democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in member states. furthermore, the resolution calls for an assessment of the impact of austerity measures on fundamental rights and proposes a revision of the dublin regulation, which is particularly important in light of the migrant crisis that is occurring across our continent.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i am delighted that my proposals to make an already good procedure still better and more incisive managed to obtain such a wide level of support and a large majority in this parliament just now. those who still claim that the european union is undemocratic should take heed of this. this is yet another little step in improving democratic accountability in the eu. already we now have a situation where no – or virtually no – legislation can be adopted at european level without the approval of the european parliament. no budget, no financial framework, no international agreement of any significance can come into force without this parliament approving it. what is more, no president of the commission can be chosen without being elected by this parliament and, as we know, the commission as a whole requires a vote of confidence from this parliament. but what this report was about was that very last point: the vote of confidence. before that vote of confidence we have a public hearing with rigorous questioning of every candidate commissioner. i would love to see that applied at national level to ministers when they take office. imagine if national parliaments required every candidate minister before they took office to be subject to a public grilling for three hours. i think it would be revealing. we do that here with regard to european commissioners and, on this front at least, we are at the cutting edge of improving democratic accountability.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur makes some good points, and i support those which will improve the process. it does not, however, propose the necessary sweeping changes and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report did make some good points, some of which i support that will improve the process. it does not, however, propose the necessary sweeping changes and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report which clarifies the procedures and practices for future commissioner hearings.
in writing. ‒ i support calls for more flexibility in the hearings of vice-presidents with cross-cutting portfolios in order to allow for wider scrutiny from all relevant parliamentary committees. calls for the re-introduction of follow up questions is also a positive contribution as it should allow meps to pursue more inquisitive questioning. however, while greater gender balance in the make-up of the college of commissioners is of course desirable, i do not support calls for member states to be required to nominate both a male and female commission candidate – with the president designate then deciding which candidates to approve for the final make up the college. notwithstanding that the key criteria for evaluating prospective candidates must be competence to fulfil their duties, it is a member state right to select the candidate of its choosing and therefore i do not support any further erosion of sovereignty in this area. alongside my conservative colleagues, i also do not support calls for further substantive analysis of commissioner designates’ financial interests – this would go far beyond parliament's competences as established under the treaties. it is for this reason that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which includes key recommendations about how future commissioner hearings should be held. these include each member state putting forward both a female and a male candidate of equal footing for consideration. the report also asks the commission to review the rules on financial declarations which should also cover financial interests of family members.
in writing. ‒ this is an excellent report which will enable meps to scrutinise candidates for the college of commissioners in more detail and also looks at the overall balance of the commission. currently only a quarter of commissioners are women and this is totally unacceptable. to claim full democratic legitimacy, all of our institutions need to be representative of european society as a whole. by recommending that member states nominate at least one woman for commissioner, this report represents a major step forward.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report and its recommendations. the commissioner hearings prior to parliament’s vote of confidence are an opportunity for the meps to scrutinise and cross examine each individual candidate, but also to look at the overall balance of the commission. europe must apply the principles of gender equality that it preaches and make sure that all eu institutions are truly representative of all eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. the public hearings of prospective members of the european commission are an exercise that is well worthwhile. even if there had been no problems whatsoever with any of the candidate commissioners, the hearings provide an opportunity for parliament and the public to discover the personalities, the general approach and the priorities of each candidate commissioner and assess their qualifications. and when there are problems, it is better that they are discovered prior to the commissioner taking office, rather than afterwards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which includes key recommendations about how future commissioner hearings should be held. these include each member state putting forward a female candidate and male candidate of equal footing for consideration. the report also asks the commission to review the rules on financial declarations which should also cover financial interests of family members.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it is far too technical and procedural and in matters of transparency does not go far in enough.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report from richard corbett, because it clarifies the procedures and practices for future commissioner hearings. it rightly identifies the aspects of the procedures and practices from the 2014 process; it flags up the lack of deadline for member states to put forward a candidate; it allows the legal affairs committee to highlight conflicts of interest; it calls for better provisions for gender equality, an issue i am very excited to hear is being addressed; and finally it allows for members to give a follow-up question to the commissioners once they have been asked a question.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it sets out clear recommendations that will improve future commissioner hearings. amongst the proposed improvements was setting a deadline for member states to propose candidates and allow enough time for the allocation of portfolios and hearings, a request to make each member state put forward a female candidate and a male candidate of equal footing for consideration, and setting a ceiling for the number of questions and follow-up questions per hearing.
mr president, last year raif badawi, a saudi activist, was sentenced to a decade in prison and a thousand lashes for criticising the saudi clerics online. sadly, this is just one of many examples of security measures being used as a pretext for clamping down on those who stand up for freedom and democracy. events in china, russia and the middle east and north africa region have demonstrated that, while digital technology can be a tool for freedom, in the wrong hands it becomes a tool for repression instead. that is why i voted in favour of the schaake report on human rights and technology in third countries. we need to adopt binding measures that require our companies not to sell technology to repressive regimes, and we need to counter the criminalisation of encryption – a valuable tool for bypassing censorship and protecting our privacy. digital surveillance will be effective in countering terrorism and keeping us safe only if it does not tread on human rights while doing so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was initiative report with a roll call vote on the final vote. the report was concerned with icts and their application/usages in surveillance programmes. the report contained some very positive aspects. primarily, it defended and called for the de-criminalisation of whistle-blowers. moreover, the report called for caution when exporting icts to third countries with poor human rights track records. it was for these reasons that i tabled a positive vote.
in writing. ‒ it is not for the commission to interfere in the internet policies of third countries, and i do not believe in the politicisation of trade in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the european commission’s interference in the internet policies of third countries, and i do not believe in the politicisation of trade in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which underlines that the surveillance of communications interferes with the rights to privacy and expression, if conducted outside an adequate legal framework. it requests that the commission ensures coherence between the eu’s external actions and its internal policies related to technology and to promote the democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in its political dialogue with third countries. the report also notes that security measures, including counter-terrorism measures, are increasingly used as pretext for violations of the right of the privacy and for clamping down on the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists; a point that labour meps have made in relation to the case of raif badawi.
in writing. ‒ whilst technology has brought huge advances in our everyday lives, there remains a frightening potential for it to be used in the abuse of human rights. this report deals with important issues and i am satisfied that this house has chosen not to water down the committee text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it underlines that the surveillance of communications interferes with the rights to privacy and expression, if conducted outside an adequate legal framework. it requests that the commission ensures coherence between the eu’s external actions and its internal policies related to technology and to promote the democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in its political dialogue with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which calls for the implementation of conditions, benchmarks and reporting procedures so as to ensure that eu financial and technical support to the development of new technologies in third countries is not used in ways that infringe on human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which underlines that the surveillance of communications interferes with the rights to privacy and expression, if conducted outside an adequate legal framework. it requests that the commission ensures coherence between the eu’s external actions and its internal policies related to technology and to promote the democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in its political dialogue with third countries. the report also notes the fact that security measures, including counterterrorism measures, are increasingly used as pretext for violations of the right of the privacy and for clamping down on the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists; a point that labour meps have made in relation to the case of raif badawi.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not believe this is an eu competency.
in writing. ‒ in the plenary session today, i voted for this report from marietje schaake as it addresses my concern about the lack of coherence between the eu’s external actions and its internal policies relating to ict. furthermore, it promotes the democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in its political dialogue with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines that the surveillance of communications interferes with the rights to privacy and expression, if conducted outside an adequate legal framework. it requests that the commission ensures coherence between the eu’s external actions and its internal policies related to technology and to promote the democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in its political dialogue with third countries.
in writing. ‒ the idea of performance-based controls is a positive one. however, i do not support the principle of the common agricultural policy itself. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the idea of performance based controls is a positive one. however, i do not support the principle of the common agricultural policy itself. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which advocates improving auditing processes by implementing quality controls rather than quantitative ones in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden and ensure funding is used in the best possible way. i support measures to simplify the cap and providing clearer guidance to both national authorities and farmers in to reduce error rates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which advocates improving auditing processes by implementing quality controls rather than quantitative ones in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden and ensure funding is used in the best possible way. i support measures to simplify the cap and providing clearer guidance to both national authorities and farmers in to reduce error rates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which advocates improving auditing processes by implementing quality controls rather than quantitative ones in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden and ensure funding is used in the best possible way. i support measures to simplify the cap and providing clearer guidance to both national authorities and farmers in to reduce error rates.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which supports the commission’s initiative of simplifying the cap with immediate examination of measures which can be implemented quickly, as this would benefit farmers, paying agencies, eu institutions and taxpayers; urges also that at the mid-term review, proposals for amendments to the basic legislative act be brought forward for consideration for the reform for the next funding period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which advocates improving auditing processes by implementing quality controls rather than quantitative ones in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden and ensure funding is used in the best possible way. i support measures to simplify the cap and providing clearer guidance to both national authorities and farmers in to reduce error rates.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as it could lead to more eu spending, which i am against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report advocates improving the auditing processes of the common agricultural policy by implementing quality controls rather than quantitive ones in order to reduce administrative burden, and ensures that funding is being used in the best possible way. i support any measures which would simply the cap and provide clearer guidance to both national authorities and farmers in order to reduce the rate of errors. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which advocates improving auditing processes by implementing quality controls rather than quantitative ones in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden and ensure funding is used in the best possible way. i support measures to simplify the cap and providing clearer guidance to both national authorities and farmers in to reduce error rates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which advocates improving our auditing processes by implementing quality controls rather than quantitative ones in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burden and to ensure that funding is used in the best possible way. i support measures to simplify the cap and provide clearer guidance to both national authorities and farmers to reduce error rates. helping to improve the efficiency of the cap is a key method of bettering the european union at all levels as we move our institutions forward.
mr president, family-owned businesses are the backbone of the northern ireland economy, and 97% of all businesses in northern ireland, many of them family-owned, can be classed as smes. in order to grow the economy, support jobs and invest in public services, we need to support small business, not to saddle it with further regulation and burdens from europe. in addition to these burdens, in northern ireland we now have a case where a family-owned business, ashers, has had a legal ruling against it for refusing to inscribe a cake because of a deeply-held religious belief. in this world of competing rights, we need to see that a family running a small business is not deprived of the fundamental right of freedom of conscience.
in writing. ‒ i oppose new eu legislation in this field. however, i support the principle of reducing red tape, as well as greater recognition of the challenges faced by family businesses. as this report includes both, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to any new eu legislation in this field, hence i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep i am firmly against and attempt to create new binding legislation in the field of business and employment and specifically against the introduction of an ‘eu family business test’.
in writing. ‒ as shadow rapporteur i voted in favour of report on family businesses. i am glad to see this report coming to plenary emphasising that member states have exclusive competency in taxation matters. this report highlights the issues facing family businesses and their economic contribution to various constituencies without calling for more europe.
in writing. ‒ more than 60% of all enterprises in the european union are family-run, and they account for about 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. family businesses moreover take a longer-term view than non-owner-run businesses given they want to ensure that the success continues in following generations. but despite the importance of these businesses for our economy, they are faced with many challenges: many do not meet the criteria to be considered an sme, meaning that a lot of potential funding is lost, or try to remain below the threshold by limiting recruitment. many also struggle with ensuring succession at the top, causing 150 000 closures each year at the cost of 600 000 jobs. that is why i supported the niebler report, which calls for member states to collect more data and promote exchanges of best practices. that way we can create the right framework on issues like corporate taxation and national taxation on inheritance and gifts so we can offer robust support to these vital motors of our economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses the role of family businesses in the financial and economic crisis and how, at an eu level, we can ensure the right framework conditions to prevent job losses.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are some worthy enough elements in this report, its scope was so wide to render it meaningless. i therefore joined with my group in abstaining on a fairly worthless text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which addresses the role of family businesses in the financial and economic crisis and how we can prevent at an eu level the right framework conditions to prevent job losses.
in writing. ‒ the promotion of jobs, growth and investment is the top priority in the political guidelines for the new european commission unveiled by commission president jean-claude juncker at the beginning of his term of office in the summer of 2014 - and rightly so: the financial and economic crisis has meant that, throughout the eu, some 25 million people are still unemployed and there are over 5 million young people under 25 years of age without work. gdp has plummeted during the crisis in some eu member states to double digits. family businesses can play a crucial role in addressing the financial and economic crisis and in reviving the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses the role of family businesses in the financial and economic crisis and how we can prevent at an eu level the right framework conditions to prevent job losses.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i am against any attempt to create new eu legislation. i am also against an ‘eu family business test’ in order to provide assistance to family businesses in europe. this is not a competency of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses the role of family businesses in the financial and economic crisis and how, at eu level, we can prevent job losses. with the right framework conditions, employment can be better guaranteed, and with more than 60% of all enterprises in the eu being family run – accounting for 40-50% of jobs in the private sector – this report is incredibly important for very many people across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses the role of family businesses in the financial and economic crisis and how we can prevent at an eu level the right framework conditions to prevent job losses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is always a pleasure to visit family businesses in my constituency; they make a significant and vital contribution to economic growth, unemployment reduction and social development. i welcome much of this report, in particular its efforts to identify the challenges and barriers to growth facing family businesses and to seek means to address them.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which calls for further eu regulation and a common framework for the exploitation of energy sources in europe. nevertheless, there were some good ideas in the report. rejection of the report as a whole should not imply that i do not have sympathy with some of the points contained in it. i believe that tidal power, for example, will eventually be a cost-effective renewable source of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for further eu regulation and a common framework for the exploitation of energy sources in europe. nevertheless, there were some good ideas in the report. rejection of the report as a whole should not imply that i do not have sympathy with some of the points contained in it. i believe that tidal power, for example, will eventually be a cost-effective renewable source of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given it is crucial we develop a greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans, and coastal areas in a sustainable manner. the eu should take action to create sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generate growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims at developing a better scientific knowledge base for our seas & oceans and at a greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans, and coastal areas. better management of our blue economy is key to several challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence. the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights a number of important areas where the eu’s maritime nations and regions can cooperate to create jobs and strengthen the blue economy. importantly, it notes that a one-size-fits-all is not appropriate and it is imperative that the commission bears this in mind in the future development of policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims at developing a better scientific knowledge base for our seas and oceans and at a greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal areas. a better management of our blue economy is key to several of our society challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence. the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
in writing. ‒ the sea has been known to be a source of wealth at least since ancient greek and roman times. ships were the main means of transporting passengers and goods over short, medium, and long distances until the end of the 19th century. fishing has been, and remains, a major source of food for waterside populations. during the last 50 years there have been significant changes in the nature of humankind’s relationship to the sea, of which the following can serve as examples: the fact that fewer passengers are being carried by sea (and correspondingly more are being carried by air); the growing importance of leisure activities; the prospection for, and exploitation of, fossil energy resources (oil and natural gas, in increasingly deep waters) necessitated by the dearth of resources on land; seabed exploration (still in its infancy) and the prospects for deep-sea mining; the prospects for utilising the energy potential contained in waves, tides, currents, and biomass (seaweed) to generate electricity; offshore wind farms; and the development of marine-related biotechnologies. the answers to many of the major challenges to society being posed to humankind could lie in better marine knowledge and a greater ability to use, manage, and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans, and coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims at developing a better scientific knowledge base for our seas and oceans and at a greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal areas. a better management of our blue economy is key to several of our society challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence. the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
in writing. ‒ better management of our blue economy is key to many challenges we face in society, including those of energy independence and developing sustainable energy sources. i voted in favour of this report today because it promotes a better scientific knowledge base for our seas and oceans and improved ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal areas. the focus of eu action should be on the creation of sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and on generating growth in areas like the emerging offshore renewable energy technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims at developing a better scientific knowledge base for our seas and oceans and at a greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans, and coastal areas. a better management of our blue economy is key to several of our society challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence. the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i am a strong supporter of efforts to promote the blue economy and i am proud that my constituency is leading the way in one of its emerging sectors, with plans for a new tidal lagoon, that could deliver both environmental benefits (in the form of clean, sustainable energy) and investment benefits for the surrounding area. notwithstanding the enormous potential of such emerging sectors, i am pleased to also see this report picking up on the role of traditional sectors and highlighting the importance of education, training and research, as this will be central to the development of the blue economy, both economically and sustainably.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims at developing our scientific knowledge base for the seas, oceans and coastal areas as well as at a greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources therein. a better management of our blue economy is the key to many of the problems facing our society, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence. the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector. this will not only promote economic growth but also promote the sustainable use of our natural resources wherever they may be.
mr president, the general direction of this report is right. equipping young people with the right skills and attitude to contribute to our economy remains a huge challenge. however, the problems that we now face are surely compounded not only by the financial crash, but also by the economic direction of europe’s leaders, which has consigned many young people from the member states represented in this house to unemployment registers for considerable periods of time. in northern ireland this was compounded by the effects of years of terrorism and division. i am glad to say that organisations such as east belfast enterprise, using money from the european social fund, are supporting people not only by helping them enter employment and education, but also by training them to nurture their own business ideas. surely this is the future. i am disappointed that, in the new round of esf funding, the minister responsible in northern ireland has limited the input of the voluntary and community sector to level-one qualifications only. this is a situation that europe must take note of and change.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for further eu funding, which is incompatible with my mandate as a ukip mep, and sadly i had to vote against it. however, i support the principle of developing youth entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non—legislative and non—binding report because it calls on the eu to promote the reform of national education systems to which it has no competence. it calls for more eu funding, action and programmes. it calls for more support and funding to erasmus (which is a glorified, expensive and bureaucratic exchange programme). only our elected government has the right to legislate and oversee education programmes and definitely not unelected and unaccountable eu commissioners in brussels. the eu has no competence to interfere with education policy.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for further eu funding, which is incompatible with my mandate as a ukip mep, and sadly i had to vote against it. however, i support the principle of developing youth entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ nearly 750 000 young people are out of job in the uk, meaning youngsters are 3 times more likely to be unemployed than the rest of the population, the largest gap in more than 20 years. meanwhile, also in my country, the government’s schemes for getting young people back to work are doing anything but that, and their solution is forcing youngsters into community work that offers minimal prospects for the future. little surprise then, that more than half of the uk’s graduates who are at work are in non-graduate jobs – one of the highest rates in europe. that is why i supported the sojdrova report and welcome eu initiatives that step up for our youngsters where the government is failing, by developing education strategies that support member states in sharing best practices, setting up domestic and cross-border partnerships, increasing mobility and backing sme networks and development agencies. because we simply cannot accept that the only choice for so many of our young people is between a low paid job or work boot camps, as is the case in the uk.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, in their decision-making about career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures. the report promotes an approach that supports young people in their creativity, ability to cope with risk, management of failure and responsible behaviour; key competences that are needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active citizenship, social inclusion and employment.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that we need entrepreneurship education at all levels – in both informal and formal educational settings. this type of education can be highly effective in motivating young people and in helping them to make the right decisions about their own career development. we need to support our young people by nurturing their creativity, building their resilience and promoting responsible behaviour. these are all key strengths needed for personal fulfilment, social inclusion and active citizenship.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it calls on the eu to promote the reform of national education systems to which it has no competence. it calls for more eu funding, action and programmes. it calls for more support and funding for to erasmus (which is a glorified, expensive and bureaucratic exchange programme). only our elected government has the right to legislate and oversee education programmes and definitely not unelected and unaccountable eu commissioners in brussels. the eu has no competence to interfere with education policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it promotes an approach that supports young people in their creativity, ability to cope with risk, management of failure and responsible behaviour – key competences that are needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active citizenship, social inclusion and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which acknowledges the role of lifelong learning and international mobility as constituting a key measure in europe’s response to globalisation and the shift to knowledge-based economies; notes, specifically, the importance of the ‘sense of initiative and entrepreneurship’, as included among the eight ‘key competences for lifelong learning ‒ a european reference framework’, considered to be needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active european citizenship and participation, social inclusion and employment.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, and in their decision-making re career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures. the report promotes an approach that supports young people in their creativity, ability to cope with risk, management of failure and responsible behaviour; key competences that are needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active citizenship, social inclusion and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for the eu to interfere in education, and it also calls for more eu spending, which i am against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, at all levels, entrepreneurship education can be an effective tool for encouraging our younger generation to develop and set up their own sustainable business ventures. the report promotes an approach that supports young people in their creativity, ability to cope with risk, management of failure and responsible behaviour – key competences that are needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active citizenship, employment and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, and in their decision-making re career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures. the report promotes an approach that supports young people in their creativity, ability to cope with risk, management of failure and responsible behaviour; key competences that are needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active citizenship, social inclusion and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as with youth unemployment appallingly high in many areas of our union it is important that we provide action as well as rhetoric for all of our young people. entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, allowing them to develop their decision-making, further career development and aid them in setting up sustainable business ventures that suit their abilities. the report promotes an approach that supports young people in their creativity, ability to cope with risk, management of failure and promotes responsible behaviour; key competences that are needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active citizenship, social inclusion and employment.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, and in their decision-making re career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures. this is particularly relevant for young people pursuing career paths in the cultural industries. the report promotes an approach that supports young people in their creativity, ability to cope with risk, management of failure and responsible behaviour; key competences that are needed by all individuals for personal fulfilment and development, active citizenship, social inclusion and employment. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ culture cannot be imposed by europe, or by spending taxpayers’ money. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non—legislative report because it seeks to use cultural heritage to further the eu´s goals. for example, it states that cultural heritage promotes european culture and values, that european culture is important for european identity, and also supports a common european cultural heritage and strengthening of community in the eu. it also looks to influence national education policy, where the eu has absolutely no competence. only elected and accountable national governments have the right to decide how to spend taxpayers’ money, create culture policy and change education policy, not unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ culture is something that cannot and should not be imposed, leat of all by the eu through the medium of spending taxpayers’ money. hence i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it seeks to use cultural heritage to further the eu’s goals. for example it states that cultural heritage promotes european culture and values; that european culture is important for european identity; and supports a common european cultural heritage and strengthen a sense of community in the eu. it also looks to influence national education policy, where the eu has absolutely no competence. only elected and accountable national governments have the right to decide how to spend taxpayers’ money, create culture policy and change education policy, not unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given i strongly agree that any public policy in the field of cultural heritage should take into account two perspectives: that cultural heritage can be a significant source of jobs and revenues and that the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. we need to start highlighting opportunities offered by an integrated approach to address contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, encouraging the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues in order to combat hatred and division and bring the people of europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ the report argues that any public policy in the field of cultural heritage should take into account two perspectives: that cultural heritage can be a significant source of jobs and revenues and that the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. it also focuses on the urgent need to take into account the links between cultural heritage - and culture in general - and other policy areas. i strongly support this approach as i believe that, beyond the economic potential of cultural heritage, we must focus on highlighting opportunities offered by an integrated approach to address contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, encouraging the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues in order to combat hatred and division and bring the people of europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it rightly argues that our policy on cultural heritage should take into account two main perspectives. firstly, cultural heritage can act as a significant source of jobs and revenue. however, the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. beyond any economic potential of cultural heritage, we need to focus on highlighting the opportunities that the effective use of cultural heritage can have as an educational tool to deal with social problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it seeks to use cultural heritage to further the eu’s goals. for example it states that cultural heritage promotes european culture and values; that european culture is important for european identity; and supports a common european cultural heritage and strengthen a sense of community in the eu. it also looks to influence national education policy, where the eu has absolutely no competence. only elected and accountable national governments have the right to decide how to spend taxpayers’ money, create culture policy and change education policy, not unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ the huge diversity of europe’s cultural diversity is one of our strengths and can act as a catalyst for social improvement and economic growth. whilst this report calls for an integrated approach to cultural heritage, it is vital that that approach is ever mindful of the need to respect diversity.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report as i agree that, beyond the economic potential of cultural heritage, we must focus on highlighting opportunities offered by an integrated approach to address contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, encouraging the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues in order to combat hatred and division and bring the people of europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ on behalf of the british conservatives, i would like to underline our support for the broad principles, and many achievable proposals, contained in mr diaconu’s report. the overarching aim of protecting and promoting the cultural heritage of eu member states, whilst boosting jobs and local economies through sustainable tourism, is one we share. we also believe that exchanging best practice between eu countries – be that through national governments, local authorities or ngos – can provide genuine eu added value in this area. however, culture and the protection of cultural heritage are not areas of eu competence and they should remain that way. a number of national programmes in the uk are already achieving, or can achieve, the aims of this text. on principle, therefore, uk meps followed our abstention on the report in committee with a vote in favour of this largely balanced text, whilst opposing key references to the existence, or the promotion, of a ‘common european culture’ or ‘values’ that could lead to competence creep. an effective, integrated approach to cultural heritage in the eu can, and must, recognise the diverse cultures and traditions of its individual member states, and be built soundly on the principles of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which believes that, with regard to the cultural heritage, an integrated approach is necessary if one wishes to achieve cultural dialogue and mutual understanding; is convinced that such an approach can lead to enhanced social, economic and territorial cohesion, while also contributing to the fulfilment of the goals set in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ the report argues that any public policy in the field of cultural heritage should take into account two perspectives: that cultural heritage can be a significant source of jobs and revenues and that the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. it also focuses on the urgent need to take into account the links between cultural heritage - and culture in general – and other policy areas. i strongly support this approach as i believe that, beyond the economic potential of cultural heritage, we must focus on highlighting opportunities offered by an integrated approach to address contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, encouraging the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues in order to combat hatred and division and bring the people of europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it calls for more eu funding and it also calls on the eu to take a greater role in cultural heritage, which i am completely against.
in writing. ‒ i greatly appreciate the time and effort that has gone into this report. i strongly support this approach as i believe that we must focus on highlighting the opportunities offered by an integrated approach to address the contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, and encourage the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues which can combat hate and division, which may bring the people of europe closer together. the report argues that two perspectives be taken into account in the development of any public policy in the field of cultural heritage. the first perspective is that it can be a significant source of jobs and revenue(s) and the second perspective is that, notwithstanding the economic potential, the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. it also focuses on the urgent need to take into account the links between cultural heritage, culture in general and other policy areas.
in writing. ‒ the report argues that any public policy in the field of cultural heritage should take into account two perspectives: that cultural heritage can be a significant source of jobs and revenues and that the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. it also focuses on the urgent need to take into account the links between cultural heritage - and culture in general – and other policy areas. i strongly support this approach as i believe that, beyond the economic potential of cultural heritage, we must focus on highlighting opportunities offered by an integrated approach to address contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, encouraging the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues in order to combat hatred and division and bring the people of europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ the report argues that public policy should account for both economic aspect of culture in promoting growth and tourism. it argues that the monetisation of culture cannot be allowed to effect the fact that ultimately cultural heritage must retain its cultural values and involve the whole of society. i strongly support this approach, which is particularly relevant to wales with our strong cultural identity. i believe that, beyond the economic potential of cultural heritage, we must focus on the opportunities offered by an integrated approach to addressing contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, encouraging the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues in order to combat hatred and division and bring the people of europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ the report argues that any public policy in the field of cultural heritage should take into account two perspectives: that cultural heritage can be a significant source of jobs and revenues and that the main value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. it also focuses on the urgent need to take into account the links between cultural heritage – and culture in general – and other policy areas. i strongly support this approach as i believe that, beyond the economic potential of cultural heritage, we must focus on highlighting opportunities offered by an integrated approach to address contemporary challenges through sensitive interpretation, encouraging the use of cultural heritage as an educational tool to deal with societal issues in order to combat hatred and division and bring the people of europe closer together.
in writing. ‒ the passing of the report is a victory for the right2water campaigners. it calls on the eu commission to enshrine the human right to water in legislation, to not promote privatisation of water services (including as part of troika demands) and to ensure that water services are not included in the ttip agreement. there are many references in the text which make it very clear that the eu must stay out of member states’ decisions on how they organise their water services and that the commission should remain neutral on the issue which they haven't been to date. disappointingly but not surprisingly, fine gael and the unionists were the only irish meps to not vote in favour of this report. having failed to remove the most progressive elements of the report and seemingly content to have eu interference in ireland’s water services they showed their contempt for the right2water campaign. the report as a whole is a massive victory for the human right to water and a step in the right direction for irish citizens.
in writing. ‒ i believe in a lot of the principles contained in this report. the right to water is a fundamental human right, and water should be a primary focus of foreign aid. i deplore the lack of access to clean, running water in so much of the world. the report does support the principle of subsidiarity in various areas. it is an own-initiative report and it covers matters beyond the scope of the citizens’ initiative. for example, it includes commentary on the issue of fracking. such matters should not be for determination at european level. for those reasons i reluctantly abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support some of the worthy principles contained in this report. the right to water is a fundamental human right, and water should be a primary focus of foreign aid. i deplore the lack of access to clean, running water in so much of the world. the report does support the principle of subsidiarity in various areas. it is an own-initiative report and it covers matters beyond the scope of the citizens’ initiative. for example, it includes commentary on the issue of fracking. such matters should not be for determination at european level. accordingly, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the eu dedicates a quarter of its global humanitarian funding to water, hygiene and sanitation. this is laudable, but not enough. 750 million people in the world still do not have access to safe drinking water. this kills more children than aids, malaria and smallpox combined. it is a situation that 1.6 million engaged european citizens could not accept. that is why they launched their own initiative to ask the european commission to do better, and i join their voices in doing so. i voted in favour of the boylan report, because i want to join them in calling for efficient and decisive action to ensure that all people enjoy the right to water and sanitation, that water supply and management are not subject to internal market rules and that water services are excluded from liberalisation. water should be the turf of life, not the turf of profit. i urge the commission not to fail 1.6 million eu citizens who are counting on it to make this a reality.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am glad to see that the eci has proven a successful tool in encouraging interaction between citizens and eu policy-making, i was unable to support the report from the envi committee. of particular concern was the provision of water in relation to the internal market. the eu is supposed to ensure neutrality as regards national, regional and local choices for the provision of water services, and it is up to the member states, and not the commission to determine how these services should be run. as a british mep, i am proud to say that the uk already has universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation; services which are predominately managed by private and well regulated companies. the envi report however emphasises the public provision of water services and neither allows for private enterprises or public-private partnerships, nor acknowledges the existing role they play in delivering high quality and affordable services across the eu and the developing world. it is for these reasons that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as the first ever successful eci, i very much welcome the right2water initiative and the important role of the european citizens’ initiative in promoting participatory democracy in the eu and helping citizens engage in the european debate. the widespread public support for the initiative shows what an important issue the human right to water and sanitation is and, going forward, this must be properly reflected across all relevant eu policy areas. i am pleased to say that i voted in favour of making universal access to affordable safe water a human right and i asked the commission to take the demands of citizens more seriously and provide a solution beyond the weak communication it recently presented on this issue. we are sending a strong message to the commission that we want the exclusion of water and sanitation from market rules. the framework directive for water is the right legal tool to ensure that water and sanitation are included in the eu legislation and in the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ access to water and sanitation is a right and must be recognised as such throughout all eu legislation. this is the first ever successful european citizens’ initiative and i very much welcome it. it sends a strong message to the commission that we want the exclusion of water and sanitation from market rules. a framework directive for water is the right legal tool for ensuring that water and sanitation are covered by eu legislation and included in the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ this house often deals with important issues and few things can be more important than the right to access to water. this citizens’ initiative calls for water services to be fully excluded from internal market rules and it is vital that the commission takes full note of today’s vote.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the right2water initiative and the important role of the european citizens’ initiative in promoting participatory democracy in the eu and helping citizens engage in the european debate. the widespread public support for the initiative shows what an important issue the human right to water and sanitation is and, going forward, this must be properly reflected across all relevant eu policy areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. privatisation of basic utilities in sub-saharan africa in the 1990s has hampered the achievement of millennium development goals (mdgs) on both water and sanitation, as the focus of investors on cost recovery has, among other things, intensified inequalities in the provision of such services, at the expense of low-income households; whereas in light of the failure of water privatisation, the transfer of water services from private companies to local authorities is a growing trend in the water sector all around the world.
in writing. ‒ as the first ever successful eci, i very much welcome the right2water initiative and the important role of the european citizens’ initiative in promoting participatory democracy in the eu and helping citizens engage in the european debate. the widespread public support for the initiative shows what an important issue the human right to water and sanitation is and, going forward, this must be properly reflected across all relevant eu policy areas. i am pleased to say that i voted in favour of making universal access to affordable safe water a human right. i asked the commission to take the demands of citizens more seriously and provide a solution beyond the weak communication it recently presented on this issue. we are sending a strong message to the commission that we want the exclusion of water and sanitation from market rules. the framework directive for water is the right legal tool to ensure that water and sanitation are included in the eu legislation and in the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for eu legislation, and it also calls on the commission to work towards certain goals. i do not recognise the commission as a legislature, so therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ as the first european citizens’ initiative to reach the target of more than 1 million signatures, the right2water initiative represents an important milestone in the history of not only the eci but also the european project. it promoted participatory democracy in the eu and allowed its citizens to engage in european debate in a tangible and practical way. the widespread public support for the initiative shows what an important issue the human right to water and sanitation is – and, looking ahead, this must be properly reflected across all relevant eu policy areas. i am pleased to say that i voted in favour of making access to affordable, universal and safe water a human right. we are sending a strong message to the commission that we want the exclusion of water and sanitation from ‘market rules’ and that the framework directive for water is the right legal tool to ensure that water and sanitation are covered by eu legislation and included in the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ as the first ever successful eci, i very much welcome the right2water initiative and the important role of the european citizens’ initiative in promoting participatory democracy in the eu and helping citizens engage in the european debate. the widespread public support for the initiative shows what an important issue the human right to water and sanitation is and, going forward, this must be properly reflected across all relevant eu policy areas. i am pleased to say that i voted in favour of making universal access to affordable safe water a human right. i asked the commission to take the demands of citizens more seriously and provide a solution beyond the weak communication it recently presented on this issue. we are sending a strong message to the commission that we want the exclusion of water and sanitation from market rules. the framework directive for water is the right legal tool to ensure that water and sanitation are included in eu legislation and in the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ as the first ever successful european citizens’ initiative, i very much welcome the right2water initiative and the important role of the eci in promoting participatory democracy in the eu and helping citizens engage in the european debate. the widespread public support for the initiative shows what an important issue the human right to water and sanitation is and, going forward, this must be properly reflected across all relevant eu policy areas. i am pleased to say that i voted in favour of making universal access to affordable safe water a human right. i asked the commission to take the demands of citizens more seriously and provide a solution beyond the weak communication it recently presented on this issue. by asserting that the issue of sanitary water is indissoluble from broader human rights, we are sending a strong message to the commission that we want the exclusion of water and sanitation from market rules. the framework directive for water is the correct legal tool to ensure that water and sanitation are included in the eu legislation and in the charter of fundamental rights, an important step to establishing that access to sanitary water is a right, not a privilege.
in writing. ‒ as the first ever successful eci, i very much welcome the right2water initiative and the important role of the european citizens’ initiative in promoting participatory democracy in the eu and helping citizens engage in the european debate. the widespread public support for the initiative demonstrates the importance of this issue from a human rights perspective and this must be properly reflected across all relevant eu policy areas.
blue-card question.– when you talk about a binding mechanism, would you not accept that if there is a binding mechanism putting these people into different areas it would (a) not only be the end of all national sovereignty, but (b) also be an effective amnesty for every single person who turns up on the shores of europe? if you have a binding mechanism, all it will do is relocate people when they arrive. are those two factors things you would agree with and think are a good thing?
madam president, the need for solidarity between member states on issues concerning those seeking asylum has been discussed frequently in this house over the years, and we have called for solidarity to be shown. today’s proposal gives us one way in which we can do that. many of us in the house feel that it is not good enough for certain governments to complain about the supposed failure of other member states and then wash their hands of the matter and step back from offering assistance, with what are, at times, pretty weak and pathetic excuses. it is clear that greece and italy need help. we know the situation in those countries and, as i say, the proposals offer a way forward. a couple of colleagues made reference to the british government, and i am deeply ashamed that the british government is not willing to follow the german example. in fact, it seems to be aligning itself more with the danish one in relation to the matter of benefits as if, somehow, creating poverty and destitution among those who are pushed to come here is something to be proud of. i know that my country is offering support through the european asylum support office and within the region, and that is important, but we could do so much more. and the public at home thinks that too. we know the conditions which lead to better integration – in terms of language, family, community, all of those things – but it is not everything and it does not mean that certain member states with no real experience can stay inexperienced on the basis of their own prejudice and preference.
madam president, the overwhelming surge in migration over these summer months, principally from conflict zones where eu interference was a major contributory cause, requires resolution – that is without doubt – but not resolution at any cost to provide a short—term fix. the european continent is now a magnet for this migration surge, with italy and greece at the forefront; we all know that. yes, it needs addressing, but fast-track dispersal is just too high—risk given the global conflict and security situation that exists currently. migrant well-being should not come at the cost of eu citizens’ well-being, specifically threats where potential terrorists – as we have already seen – can enter countries unhindered and unchecked and move around the continent, as will be the case with this mechanism. this is a short-term knee-jerk response to solving a problem with a quick fix rather than addressing the origins, including existing causal eu policies. that is what needs to happen.
mr president, i have compassion for those who have suffered great danger fleeing conflict and great sympathy for those people in those coastal areas of italy and greece who have borne the brunt of the current migration flow. we have a crisis, but i am afraid eu policy has made it worse. the schengen open borders system has encouraged entry. the commission plan to distribute large numbers of migrants across europe is further incentive. today it is 40 000, plus 120 000. how many more tomorrow? over nine million people have left their homes in syria. the people-traffickers are being enriched at the cost of human life. all this is happening at a time of raised threats of terrorism. the first priority of eu policy should be the security and cohesion of our countries and the rights of our own citizens. certainly, we need to relieve the pressure on italy and greece. instead of making the problem worse we should focus on improving border security and a functioning system for the processing of migrants, including the return of those that are not genuine refugees. we must help people fleeing persecution, but above all we must protect our democracies.
mr president, we have a crisis, a terrible crisis with great human cost. now is not the time for weak politicians to take panic measures based purely on emotion. we have a situation where there are war-torn countries that we helped to destroy. we have people traffickers making a fortune from dealing in these suffering people. we have deaths caused by people encouraged to travel to the eu. so what do we need to do? well why do we not tackle the people traffickers? why do we not stop the root cause? why do we not stop interfering in other people’s countries and helping their destruction? and why do we not make it clear that we will allow genuine asylum seekers but we cannot allow everyone, so there is no need or motivation for people to come en masse and risk their lives this way. knee-jerk surrender of our borders is not the answer to this current crisis. calm, thought-through, strong solutions are the way forward.
in writing.– in the european parliament, brussels ukip meps voted to uphold geneva convention on refugees to reduce the draw factor for migrants towards europe thus saving lives. the party also voted to stop the uk being financially liable for not agreeing to mandatory placement of migrants in the uk. the new emergency legislation which now goes to the next european council meeting means that states in the schengen area can vote by qualified majority voting. countries such as hungary, austria and the czech republic which are opposed to taking in more migrants could be forced to do so by germany, italy and france. germany seeks to offload the consequences of such an ill—judged, illiterate and incoherent policy by forcing member states to take migrants, bear the costs involved and fundamentally dig germany out of a self—created financial, social, humanitarian and political fiasco.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs. for the committee on women’s rights (femm), it is important that gender issues are treated seriously in the area of cohesion policy, because this represents a very significant slice of eu expenditure. women are essential to the success of any regional policy. we have focused in our report on some of the challenges facing women in the labour market. historically, women are more adversely affected by unemployment than men. the gender pay gap should be narrowing rapidly, but it is not. women are still struggling for equality of opportunities in science and technology, as the vozemberg report – which we will also be voting on tomorrow – shows. this must improve. single mothers have additional difficulties in all these areas. the femm opinion takes the perspective that job creation is the objective, not the activity. we voted for an opinion that proposed measures and conditions that will assist job creation.
blue-card question.– i was wondering what makes you think that economic growth and drive can be better delivered by the ideas of eu commissioners than by leaving the taxpayers’ money actually in the taxpayers’ hands and allowing entrepreneurs within cities to drive that growth? what evidence do you have that eu commissioners are better at doing this than businessmen?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the ecr group recognises the practical value of regional development funding and supports efforts to ensure it is spent more efficiently. this sixth report clearly calls for more to be done there. it is not a clean bill of health. i and others in the group are not wholly convinced that there is as full an understanding as there should be: this funding is not a revenue substitute, nor is it intended to be for more than a third of a century, as has been the case. furthermore, i do not believe that part of the agenda behind the – in other respects unobjectionable – urban policy is desirable either, especially – and i quote – ‘to improve the democratic legitimacy of the european project’. best practice and cooperation – yes. i welcome those elements; but new layers of control towards a federal project – no.
madam president, eu regional development and cohesion policy in its current form are counter-democratic and opposed to freedom. our people do not want more central planning, rules, regulation, targets – and please, no more wasted taxpayers’ millions. people thrive when they taste true freedom. we must break down government to bring it closer to the people. instead of regionalisation, let us have localism. we will fight against the eu-supported greater birmingham combined authority in the west midlands that i represent because the people do not want the power to be centralised. the people want the power brought closer to them – true democracy – and, underneath, the fury of the people when they see this centralisation will bury this centralisation scheme in the west midlands and we will bring forth the people’s desire for true democracy and freedom.
madam president, i would like to tell the commissioner that, despite what some people in the uk say, wales is a huge beneficiary of eu funds and is a huge supporter of eu regional funds. i would also like to thank the two rapporteurs. i am pleased that both reports highlight new opportunities in the current structural funds programme, for example, the opportunity to create synergies between different cohesion policy funds and between cohesion policy funds and other programmes. i hope that the member states and regions will take this opportunity. i also hope that they are using the new tools available to them which will have an impact on the geographical areas, for example, integrated territorial investments and the community-led local development initiatives. by adopting a bottom-up approach, by using a change of planning across an area, and by using a number of funds together, i believe that cohesion policy funds can make an even bigger difference in the future. i would ask the commission and commissioner to monitor the use of these new tools to make sure that they are being used and that they are effective.
madam president, amongst the positive aspects in this report, such as the calls for simplification, more focus on smes and results-based policymaking, the assessment of the previous cohesion policy programming period paints a somewhat more negative picture. the backlog in payments as well as the consistently high error rate we have seen in cohesion spending amount to nothing more than an administrative mess. therefore, i am surprised to see the finger being pointed at inadequate funding. the reality is that we have an over-complex system that is not accessible to the end user and remains vulnerable to fraud. moving forward, what we need to see is increased efficiency, increased simplicity and increased accountability on how our taxpayers’ money is spent – not an increase in funding, as some in this house may like to suggest.
madam president, i was proud to hold a european year event in bedford, in my constituency, with britain’s age uk, about the importance of staying warm, and to take part in exercise programmes called ‘fit as a fiddle’ in luton and in ipswich. i congratulate all involved. but is not the real ‘fiddle’ the claim that we believe in inter-generational solidarity when, in fact, that solidarity is tragically breaking down? how can british pensioners heat their homes when two million of them – paid the lowest pensions as a proportion of gdp of all european countries except latvia – live in poverty, and when the pre-election promise to cap their social care costs has been cruelly broken less than three months on? sadly, british pensioners are simply some of the worst victims of cuts in welfare levels, which the commission report on ageing says will decline europe-wide by a further 2% this year. that greek pensioner who collapsed on the floor because he could not collect his pension is symbolic of how older people are being treated across our continent. we should think twice before telling them to stay active. let us start by telling them how they are supposed to survive.
member of the commission. population ageing is an element of progress, not a problem. and we must invest in this development, and the commission shares your view. the ageing population and the related challenges will increase in the coming years. because we know that the baby-boom cohort is reaching retirement age and we must now use the momentum of the european year to step up our efforts and to improve the quality of life of older people in all respects; the report by parliament sets the right direction for this, for which i thank you. attention has been drawn to the special position of the unemployed among the older population. i can tell you that in the coming weeks we are going to come forward with an initiative to combat longterm unemployment. longterm unemployment is also a problem among the older population. they have a particularly difficult time getting back to work and i hope that this initiative will certainly benefit them too. at least i believe in that. the pensions were also discussed. pensions must not only be sustainable in the financial sense, i.e. governments must still be able to pay them, but they must also be adequate and they must reach a decent level. that is, a level that allows people to continue to enjoy a decent standard of living even after they leave the labour market. but to achieve that, more people will have to work, more people will have to work, and people will have to work longer, and we also know that this is not going to happen by accident. this has an impact on the organisation of work. that has an impact on the employability of work. we will also be addressing this together with the social partners, because we have to ensure working conditions and safety and health at work to make this possible. there was talk of skills. people must retain the skills necessary to stay in the job. we must pay particular attention to this. lifelong learning, skills, reskilling, that's something that's definitely going to be addressed in the skills agenda that we're going to be presenting in 2016. and in doing so we will pay particular attention to the group of older workers or older people in society. as regards the question of a strategy, i can answer that, in line with its previous strategic communications between 2006 and 2009, the commission has certainly made a serious contribution over the last 15 years to raising awareness of the challenges of an ageing population and thus helping member states to be prepared for them. demographic change is something that has been mainstreamed into the commission's policy in several dossiers. we support adaptation to demographic change in areas such as social policy, employment, education, transport, ict, research, but also in the context of economic, fiscal and regional policies. and policy adjustment in a democracy does require change; and another remains an integral part of our europe 2020 strategy and is also clearly present in the country specific recommendations. we will ensure that this attention does not fade. initiatives such as the white paper on pensions, an initiative of 2012, or the social investment package launched in 2013, provide foresight and guidance for the future to policy makers on how best to address the challenges. i am convinced that the strategic guidelines contained in it will remain valid. the priority now is to ensure that these strategic orientations are properly implemented and properly reflected in each of our policy areas. it requires constant attention. that requires concentration on these issues. that also requires a kind of cultural shift. but if we continue to work on that, i am sure we will succeed. today's report by mr kukan has a number of good ideas on this subject, and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to this report and debate.
in writing.– i recognise the issues impacting an ageing population, and the need to plan for that. nevertheless, this debate refers to the year 2012 and is somewhat out of date. this matter was debated fully (at least by the standards of this chamber). i am astonished that a citizens’ initiative signed by 1.9 million people is afforded no debate time and catch-the-eye only, whilst this report receives a full debate. we need to recall that citizens should always be a priority. on the matter at hand, medical training within the member states is vital. importing medical professionals, often from developing countries, leads to considerable lack of resources in those countries. we need to step up efforts to train more home-grown medical professionals.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i am utterly against these resource grabs. they establish, yet again, the dominance of powerful interests over those of indigenous peoples in poor nations. madagascar has had the eu access quotas increased by 30%, while the access fees granted to madagascar have decreased by 20%. the resolution talks in big words about tightening monitoring, but madagascar only has 11 police boats to cover around 5 000 kilometres of coast. these fine words mean nothing. cape verde is paid just eur 3.3 million for four years of 71 eu boats plundering its seas – again, colonialist tactics to exploit a poorer nation. what is the eu? a new empire? as for guinea-bissau, the eu is exploiting its political instability and indirectly encouraging the move from subsistence fishing to drug smuggling. the eu should be ashamed. finally, regarding sharks, the south and west coasts of the uk are full of small sharks. this has nothing to do with the disgraceful practice of finning. regulated fishing of them should be restarted.
madam president, in the past fisheries agreements have seemed too often to be primarily a mechanism for exporting surplus fleet capacity from certain eu member states. also, in many cases, there was very little emphasis given to ensuring that local populations in third countries gained long-term benefit from the exploitation of their resources. for those reasons and some others, i have most often in the past voted against such agreements in principle. however, one of the key improvements of the common fisheries policy was supposedly to place fisheries partnership agreements on a sounder ethical footing. they are now supposed to adhere to sustainability objectives. nevertheless, each agreement has to be taken on its merits, and it is regrettable to say that the guinea-bissau protocol is now founded on well out-of-date data, a situation that is avoidable and should have been avoided. i will be able to support the other two agreements but not the one with guinea bissau for that reason.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van de camp, for all of his hard work. certainly, from our point of view – the conservative point of view – it is a shame that much of your original text was changed. you know that we supported a lot of it. regrettably, it now contains several areas which my uk delegation will find difficult to support. firstly, the excessive concentration on further social legislation in the fields of aviation and road haulage: this would, in our view, close down the markets and is blatantly protectionist. secondly, the unnecessary creation of a new european road safety transport agency: we do not believe that would add value. next, the push to move forward with the ports directive which, as it stands, would in our view be damaging to the interests of a very successful british ports industry. finally, i come to the reference to gibraltar. i see that the good colleague of mine who originally put down the amendments two years ago has left. this is about a british sovereign territory which is a full member of the single market. i must say that, while spain continues to challenge this sovereign state, there will be no movement on either the implementation – regrettably – of single sky or the passenger rights regulation that mr bach has worked on. for that reason, and solely for that reason, mr van de camp, we cannot support the report tomorrow, but we appreciate the work you have done.
mr president, in this report the rapporteur proposes the introduction of cable cars as an inexpensive form of urban transport. the thames cable car in the uk cost gbp 60 million to build, with an operational cost of gbp 6 million in the first year. with passenger numbers dropping year by year this is certainly not cost-effective. this report also proposes a review of directive (eu) 2015/719 on weights and dimensions. i am deeply concerned by this review, especially with respect to recital 8 of the directive – which provides for exemptions allowing member states to impose restrictions for reasons related to road safety or infrastructure characteristics – which could be removed. yet again, this report champions the commission’s right to interfere in the sovereignty of member states by proposing a national road-charging scheme for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. this is a disgrace. it also proposes that the commission should have more powers to force through the speedy completion of the ten-t project or, as we call it, hs2. this report is full of contradictions and is unfounded, so i urge you to vote against it.
mr president, this is a positive and forward-looking report with many key recommendations. there are a few separate votes on issues including the need for ports regulation and progressing mega-trucks as a policy aim, and also on the 4th railway package and the benefits of competitive tendering. i am afraid the british labour meps will be voting against those points. however, in total and on balance, we very much support the report, and i welcome in particular the reinforcement of eu action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by at least 60% by 2050. this is a vital statement for us to make in the run-up to the paris summit on tackling climate change. i also especially want to highlight the focus on investment in this report. in my city of london, transport investment is not keeping up with the demands of the economy and the needs of a growing population. across europe, the situation is the same, and we must address this urgently. it is a big gap and we must address it consistently in the years ahead, recognising that, while the private sector has a role to play, we need substantial public funds for investment in transport.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, before i start i would like to address mr juncker and echo the president’s words in terms of paying tribute to him personally for his courage, and also his sense of duty, in coming here today to address us. mr juncker, we may not always agree, but actually i think we have to pay tribute to your courage and your sense of duty. thank you very much. (applause) i am not softening you up for a number of blows, do not worry about that! year after year i sit in this chamber, and we hear a lot of rhetoric from all sides. after all, that is the point of parliament: to discuss. we hear a lot of ideology, a lot of idealism. i hear some people say that only more europe is the answer. i hear others say that the eu is the cause of all our problems, and i fear we will hear that same debate all over again today. that is why we never get anything done. that is why the eu is seeing crisis after crisis. i know that many of us from across the political spectrum came into politics because we wanted to help people, but in this chamber we are paralysed in this debate and this continent by ideology and dogma. dogma that has caused fair—weather eu policies, like castles made of sand that fall into the sea or eventually melt into the sea. at times, the debates verge on serialism, for example when you see someone walk down with an angela merkel mask. at other times what we need is realism. we need some euro realism and the migrant and refugee crisis is one example. many people on the edges of this chamber deliberately seek to confuse economic migrants with refugees, either to let them all in or to keep them all out. but we need to be clear about the distinction: people running for their lives, seeking sanctuary as refugees. we need to understand what they are running from. for those not fully in persecution or famine, we have to understand that it is only human nature to want to seek a better life. but we must be clear, in that case, that the correct rules must be followed. there are currently legal migration systems that we have to adhere to. however, we also need to be honest with our voters. the effects of the war in syria and conflicts in libya, eritrea, ukraine and elsewhere will be long-lasting and those who say that there are easy solutions are just plain wrong. but in the eu, rather than trying to find common solutions, we now find our countries and institutions trying to find someone to blame rather than trying to find solutions. some countries are unilaterally rewriting the rules; others are clearly flouting them, undermining trust. but if there is one thing that the eu should be useful for, whatever our ideological views, surely it should be about bringing countries together to cooperate and to find solutions that we can all find together, and so let us sit around a table – and i do not mean just the countries of the eu. this is an international crisis that needs an international response. of the four million refugees from syria, 90% are in camps in jordan, lebanon and turkey, and yet some middle eastern countries take absolutely no-one. let us work out what each country can do to help those fleeing for their lives, but let us be clear: telling countries what to do, forcing a plan on them, only risks more finger pointing. it might make some of you feel better, but i fear it could actually make the crisis worse and push us further away from a solution, because different countries can help people in different ways: let us recognise that. yes, some countries might wish to take migrants already in the eu. that is their choice, but others will rightly say that they want to help the most vulnerable in the camps around syria. we have an obligation to help the millions of people displaced by conflict, not just the thousands who managed to reach our shores. that is why some countries, including my own, are focusing their efforts on these camps and on the ground, tackling the vulnerable, delivering over a billion euros of aid to syrian camps, helping hundreds of millions of african refugees and actually keeping our commitment of 0.7% of gni to build an economic infrastructure in poorer countries around the world. let us not dismiss that sort of assistance. other countries can also make a contribution with more funding and assistance, setting up application centres closer to where people are fleeing from so that vulnerable people do not have to fall into the arms of the traffickers. others can commit the hardware intelligence to take out the traffickers completely, and for all of us stabilising the situation will mean investing in resources to detain, swiftly process and return those who do not have a legitimate claim. in the ecr, we want a realistic, holistic and practical response. there should be no sacred cows if we are going to solve this problem together. president juncker, over the last year, we have seen an unprecedented amount of sticking plaster placed on europe’s cracks, not least the euro crisis. we need to start finding some real solutions: we need to tackle these problems in realistic ways. the time to point fingers is over, and i hope there will not be any more of that today. it might produce headlines, but it will not produce solutions, so let us sit down together and work together. europe does not need a new iron curtain; europe needs iron will to discuss together, work together and find a solution together. i hope you will listen. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, mr juncker has simply got this wrong. as i warned in april, the european common asylum policy sets its terms so widely as to say that anyone setting foot on eu soil can stay: i said it would lead to a flow of biblical proportions, and indeed that is what we are beginning to see. this has been compounded by germany saying last week that basically anyone can come. it is a bit too late now to draw up a list, by countries of origin, of who can stay and who cannot stay. all they have to do, as they are doing, is throw their passports into the mediterranean and say they are coming from syria. as we know, the majority of people who are coming – and the slovakian prime minister has been honest enough to say so – are economic migrants. in addition, we see, as i warned earlier, evidence that isis is now using this route to put their jihadists on european soil. we must be mad to take this risk with the cohesion of our societies. if we want to help genuine refugees, if we want to protect our societies, if we want to stop the criminal trafficking gangs from benefiting as they are doing, we must stop the boats coming – as the australians did – and then we can assess who qualifies for refugee status. i noted your comments, mr juncker, because there is a referendum coming in the united kingdom. i look forward to seeing you in the uk. i know you intend to spend tens of millions of pounds of british taxpayers’ money telling us what we should think. i have a feeling that the british people will warm to you on a personal level, but, as to suggesting that getting rid of a few eu regulations is going to change our minds, sorry – unless you give mr cameron back control and discretion over our borders, the brits, in the course of the next year, will vote to leave. (applause from certain quarters)
in writing.– i have to thank president juncker for making a speech which is so helpful to the cause of british withdrawal from the european union. mr juncker wants ever more european integration in all areas; but let me highlight those points which will be of great interest to the british public. first of all he wants to open up europe's borders to yet more waves of immigration, which he calls ‘legal channels for immigration’. he wants even greater integration of economic and fiscal policy, and economic governance of the member states by the eu. he wants to guarantee the security of the balkans and poland against any military threat from russia. if the british people want to remain in the eu then this is what is in store for them: never ending uncontrolled and unlimited immigration from africa, the middle east and beyond; britain's eventual entry into the european single currency; and the creation of a european army, which will absorb the british armed forces. mr juncker has done more to help the cause of british withdrawal from the eu than any other individual. may he keep up the good work and come to britain to campaign in the referendum campaign.
mr president, firstly i believe that the european union’s response to the migrant crisis is completely wrong-headed. i also believe that germany and sweden’s position is particularly irresponsible. what do you think will happen if you say that everyone can claim asylum? it is simple: more people will come. that means more people will risk their lives crossing the mediterranean, crossing the aegean sea. that means more boats, more drownings and more deaths. having said that, although i disagree with europe’s response to the migrant crisis, at least we are doing something. the real scandal here is the countries that are doing absolutely nothing, and by that i mean the oil-rich gulf states of qatar, bahrain, kuwait, the united arab emirates, and in particular saudi arabia – the sponsor of the evil wahhabism which is islamic state. the fact is, they are taking no refugees whatsoever, and they are pushing their co-religionists towards europe. if we want to stop the deaths, as tony abbott, the prime minister of australia, has said, you must stop the boats.
mr president, we face an unprecedented situation and we must prioritise helping refugees fleeing horrific wars, both with their immediate needs and to give them hope and support for the longer term. but different countries can help in different ways and we should stop the finger-pointing. in the uk, for example, we are already providing more aid in syrian camps than the rest of europe put together, and offering to resettle the most vulnerable refugees directly from the camps in order not to encourage further people trafficking. individual countries, however, should consider the impact on their neighbours when they are granting asylum. granting refugee status does not give that person automatic rights to move across europe, and i think this needs to be very clear because otherwise we risk jeopardising public confidence in free movement in europe. so let us be very clear to people about their rights, and even at this difficult time we must not postpone other reforms to build our economies. unless our countries have long-term economic plans and strength, they will not be able to support people in our own countries or those who need our help in other parts of the world.
mr president, we heard commission president juncker this morning mentioning the kind people at munich station and the kind people on the greek islands. commissioner avramopoulos, you are greek, and you really did your job this morning: we heard all about the plans. and we will see kind people, as ska keller said, all over europe – in my member state and elsewhere. however, they are asking a very simple question: what is the european union doing? my answer to that is that the european union is the member states, and the member states, which are meeting on monday – with a presidency that has a great sense of urgency – must understand that the plans which were presented today are credible and clear, and whatever anyone says from across the political spectrum in this house, parliament has done its work on relocation fast and efficiently. we have done our work, but what will happen on monday? will we see opt-outs? will we see dilution? will we see the blame game on monday? or will we see a reaction to the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war? the european union is its member states and it is its people. let us not fail the refugees or the people of the european union on 14 september.
mr president, if i was in danger, i would want to leave as well. these are very clear principles that we know. but the united nations declarations understand this, and make sure that asylum is defined as based on a well-founded fear of persecution. the un also makes a clear definition of those who are economic migrants, as well as those not fleeing from persecution. but the eu’s proposals are trying to abandon these principles. they are trying to create international law. they are trying to abandon the dublin regulations. middle-class and wealthy meps, who have enough cash to avoid the economic and social problems of mass migration, come up with schemes such as this to salve their consciences, but they ignore the poor, the voiceless, the immobile, who live throughout europe and who will have to live on the edge and suffer the consequences of these schemes. one cannot think of one without considering the other.
in writing.– the scale, complexity, and urgency of today’s humanitarian crises are unprecedented. there is no easy solution and we cannot help everyone but we must do everything in our power to help as many as possible. europe must stand up for its values and live up to the expectations of many european citizens. instead, we see a commendable action from our german colleagues and sheer panic in the voice of many other european leaders. the european union is not just about grants, development funds and the single market. it is about values. this is our chance to show the world that the eu is committed to the principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights – the freedoms we all hold dear. while the uk government struggles to show leadership, scotland stands ready to offer sanctuary to refugees. the syrian civil war, now entering its fifth year, is the main reason why we see a mass exodus of refugees, until their homeland is safe men, women and children will do anything to find safety. as our first minister nicola sturgeon said our response will be judged by history and i also hope that the next generation will be proud of our response.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, which is consistent with my previous vote on recognition of palestine. rather than rehearse the same reasons, i refer to my reasoning in a previous explanation of vote.
in writing. ‒ i don’t believe that the eu approaches the israel/palestine even-handedly, and am deeply concerned by the bias towards the palestinian side of this tragic and contentious issue. it is my belief that until the eu takes a more neutral approach, and, indeed, hamas stops calling for the destruction of the israeli state, there will not be a lasting peace. accordingly, i have no faith whatsoever in the eu approach, and thus voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ mr president, it should come as no surprise that the chair of this parliament’s delegation to the palestinian legislative council is leading this latest political stunt. this disingenuous proposal is but another unilateral attempt to recognise palestinian statehood contrary to international law and contrary to reality. a two-state solution can only derive of bilateral negotiations between israel and palestinian representatives. this is enshrined in the oslo accords and several un resolutions. no worthless name change can change that fact. therefore, because we in northern ireland are used to sinn fein attempting to rewrite the history of the ira’s terrorist past, it comes as no shock that they are also aiming to reshape reality in europe on this issue. don’t be fooled. like in northern ireland, the end of terrorism must be a precursor to talks in the middle east scenario. hamas must stop their reign of terror if the situation is to move forward. and this is the primary message that the european parliament must send.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the request of the palestine delegation to change their name. this is a symbolically important statement in the move towards palestinian statehood.
in writing. ‒ i supported this change of name as i believe the new name better reflects the role of the delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i feel that it is a more appropriate name for this parliamentary delegation, and represents a step, albeit extremely small, towards peace between israel and the state of palestine.
in writing. ‒ i oppose these agreements, which have a whiff of exploitation about them. we should not be paying developing countries to plunder their natural resources. i therefore voted against the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i oppose these agreements, which have a whiff of exploitation about them. we should not be paying developing countries to plunder their natural resources. i therefore voted against the agreement.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report given the protocol concerned provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau within the limits of the available surplus. it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. the protocol is of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry. it provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, also with a view to combating iuu fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i feel that it will improve the eu’s relations with guinea-bissau, especially after the coup d’état in 2012.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement, as it provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea—bissau within the limits of the available surplus. it is also of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective but also when it comes to rebuilding its fisheries sector and developing its local fisheries industry. it is an essential tool to add value to the fishing process and ultimately to export fisheries products into the eu.
in writing. ‒ guinea-bissau is one of the poorest, least developed countries in the world and it is highly indebted. it also has one of the world’s lowest levels of gdp per capita. the current protocol covers a period of three years from the date of its signature. it is a multi-species agreement as it covers not only tuna but also prawns and cephalopods. the financial contribution amounts to 9.200.000eur/year, including 3.000.000 eur/year support to the sectoral fisheries policy of guinea-bissau. the protocol provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau within the limits of the available surplus. the fpa is of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective but also when it comes to rebuilding its fisheries sector and developing its local (including artisanal) fisheries industry. it is an essential tool to add value to the fishing process and ultimately to export fisheries products into the eu. in addition, it can help reducing guinea bissau's dependency on cashew production and international aid, and strengthening the country’s economy whose weakness, compounded to its political, economic and financial instability, enabled narco cartels to become more and more powerful - a development which greatly destabilised the country.
in writing. ‒ this renewal of the protocol provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea—bissau within the limits of the available surplus. the protocol is of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective but also when it comes to rebuilding its fisheries sector and developing its local (including artisanal) fisheries industry. it is an essential tool to add value to the fishing process and ultimately to export fisheries products into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i feel that it will improve the eu’s relations with guinea-bissau, especially after the coup d’état in 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is a renewal of a protocol that existed before guinea-bissau’s more recent turbulent times.
in writing. ‒ whilst i voted against the agreement, for the reasons outlined in that explanation, the report itself contains some mitigating positive features. for example, it wants to provide for local fisheries and processing. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ whilst i voted against the agreement, for the reasons outlined in that explanation, the report itself contains some mitigating positive features. for example, it wants to provide for local fisheries and processing. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report given the protocol provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau within the limits of the available surplus. it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources. the protocol is of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective and for the country’s economy, in particular for the fisheries sector and the development of the local fisheries industry. it provides for enhanced scientific and administrative cooperation, also with a view to combating iuu fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i feel that it will improve the eu’s relations with guinea-bissau, especially after the coup d’état in 2012, as well as improving opportunities for the fishing industries in the eu and guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement, as it provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea—bissau within the limits of the available surplus. it is also of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective but also when it comes to rebuilding its fisheries sector and developing its local fisheries industry. it is an essential tool to add value to the fishing process and ultimately to export fisheries products into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and welcome its suggestion that measures to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau should be reinforced including by improved monitoring, control and surveillance through the extensive use of the satellite-based vessel monitoring system, logbooks, inspectors and the implementation of decisions by regional fisheries organisations.
in writing. ‒ this renewal of the protocol provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the exclusive economic zone of guinea—bissau within the limits of the available surplus. the protocol is of great importance for guinea-bissau from a financial perspective but also when it comes to rebuilding its fisheries sector and developing its local (including artisanal) fisheries industry. it is an essential tool to add value to the fishing process and ultimately to export fisheries products into the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i feel that it will improve the eu’s relations with guinea-bissau, especially after the coup d’état in 2012, as well as improving opportunities for the fishing industries in the eu and guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is a renewal of a protocol that existed before guinea-bissau’s more recent turbulent times.
in writing. ‒ i oppose these agreements, which have a whiff of exploitation about them. we should not be paying developing countries to plunder their natural resources. i therefore voted against the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i oppose these agreements, which have a whiff of exploitation about them. we should not be paying developing countries to plunder their natural resources. i therefore voted against the agreement.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this recommendation given the conclusion of this protocol will be beneficial for both the eu and cape verde. it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because not only will it bring about enhanced cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde, but it will also give way to a responsible use of the resources in the fishing zone of this country. furthermore, this agreement will make it possible – or at least easier – to meet the needs of cape verde more effectively: in particular, its fight against illegal, unreported and/or under-regulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement as its aim is to enhance cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde, thereby creating a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of this country.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol. the fishing opportunities granted to eu vessels are in line with the best scientific opinions available and with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, and are in keeping with the ‘available surplus’ principle. it should be noted that the new protocol lays down a reference tonnage which is identical to that under the previous protocol. the catch level is therefore controlled, but nonetheless allows fishing zones for eu vessels to be dovetailed because of the fisheries agreements concluded by the eu with senegal and guinea bissau, making this agreement part of a ‘regional network of active fpas’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as this new agreement ought to make it possible to meet more effectively the needs of cape verde in its fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing by stepping up monitoring and surveillance within its exclusive economic zone, by improving the management of fishery resources, by supporting dialogue with all stakeholders, as well as regional and international cooperation, by improving the health quality of fishery products and by fostering the development of non-industrial fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it will lead to enhanced cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde and create a partnership agreement that will develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as this new agreement ought to make it possible to meet more effectively the needs of cape verde in its fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing by stepping up monitoring and surveillance within its exclusive economic zone, by improving the management of fishery resources, by supporting dialogue with all stakeholders, as well as regional and international cooperation, by improving the health quality of fishery products and by fostering the development of non-industrial fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report, for the same reasons as i voted against the agreement. there were no obvious mitigating circumstances in this case.
in writing. ‒ whilst i voted against the agreement, for the reasons outlined in that explanation, the report itself contains some mitigating positive features. for example, it wants to provide for local fisheries and processing. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report given the conclusion of this protocol will be beneficial for both the eu and cape verde. it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement as its aim is to enhance cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde, thereby creating a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of this country.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this report asks the commission to communicate annually with parliament on the additional international agreements of cape verde so that parliament may monitor all fishing activities in the region, including those that may be contrary to european fisheries policy, for example, shark finning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as this new agreement ought to make it possible to meet more effectively the needs of cape verde in its fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing by stepping up monitoring and surveillance within its exclusive economic zone, by improving the management of fishery resources, by supporting dialogue with all stakeholders, as well as regional and international cooperation, by improving the health quality of fishery products and by fostering the development of non-industrial fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because not only will it bring about enhanced cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde, but it will also give way to a responsible use of the resources in the fishing zone of this country. furthermore, this agreement will make it possible – or at least easier – to meet the needs of cape verde more effectively: in particular, its fight against illegal, unreported and/or under-regulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as this new agreement ought to make it possible to meet more effectively the needs of cape verde in its fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing by stepping up monitoring and surveillance within its exclusive economic zone, by improving the management of fishery resources, by supporting dialogue with all stakeholders, as well as regional and international cooperation, by improving the health quality of fishery products and by fostering the development of non-industrial fishing.
madam president, to my mind there is something more than a little exploitative about these fisheries agreements: we effectively pay very poor countries to allow us to plunder and fish their natural resources. madagascar, in particular, in the indian ocean has a unique ecology: it has flora and fauna which are so varied from geological origins. this situation needs very careful treatment and protection, and i do not think that this agreement is necessarily what the people of madagascar need.
in writing. ‒ madagascar in the indian ocean has a unique ecology, flora and fauna. accordingly, i believe that it is essential that special protection should be given. this fairly standard agreement allows 94 vessels to plunder madagascan waters, and quite frankly, is the exact opposite of what this delicate eco structure requires. hence, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this recommendation given the conclusion of the protocol will help maintain fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the fishing zone of madagascar and contribute to better management and conservation of fishery resources through financial support (sectoral support) for the implementation of programmes adopted at national level by the partner country, in particular as regards monitoring and combating illegal fishing. under the protocol, madagascar is expected to continue to cooperate effectively with the eu particularly as regards the sustainable management of fishery resources and the fight against iuu fishing.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the protocol will help maintain fishing opportunities for vessels of the eu when in the fishing zone of madagascar. furthermore, the protocol will contribute to better conservation and general management of fishery resources through sectoral, financial support for the implementation of programmes adopted at a national level by the partner country. hence, i voted for this recommendation, and agree that this protocol is a good agreement for the fisheries’ sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement, as it is good for the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ one of the biggest criticisms of the european union fisheries partnership agreements is around the monitoring and evaluation of the benefits of specific investments in the sector. to counter this effect, fisheries partnership agreements should contain explicit and measurable targets and indicators to be evaluated at the end of them. objectives such as increasing the autonomy of partner countries in the fisheries sector (e.g. increased numbers of local fishermen), a contribution to combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and the implementation of monitoring programmes (e.g. vms or ais) are issues that should figure more prominently within the partnership agreements.
in writing. ‒ generally speaking, this is a good partnership agreement for the fisheries sector. sadly though, only planned monitoring through an observer programme only involves 10% of the european fleet. this is a low figure and it is important to make efforts to increase the coverage rate.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the protocol will help maintain fishing opportunities for vessels of the eu when in the fishing zone of madagascar. furthermore, the protocol will contribute to better conservation and general management of fishery resources through sectoral, financial support for the implementation of programmes adopted at a national level by the partner country. hence, i voted for this recommendation, and agree that this protocol is a good agreement for the fisheries’ sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it is a good partnership agreement for the fisheries sector. however, i would have liked to see greater efforts made to increase the coverage rate of planned monitoring through an observer programme.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement, but britain should be signing it not the eu! i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement, but britain should be signing it not the eu! i therefore abstained.
in writing. – president, i supported this recommendation given the trade facilitation agreement seeks to reduce bureaucracy and corruption by modernising and standardising aspects of customs. it will prove most effective when appropriate technical assistance is given to developing countries, and the eu must be ready to assist.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because it will breathe new life into the world trade organisation. this agreement, which was reached through a consensus of both developed and developing countries will facilitate the battle against corruption and the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy and modernise aspects of customs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement, which has been reached by consensus with developed and developing countries, as it seeks to reduce bureaucracy and corruption by modernising and standardising aspects of customs. it will prove most effective when appropriate technical assistance is given to developing countries, and the eu must be ready to assist.
in writing. ‒ the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) which was concluded at the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013 is the first multilateral agreement since the wto was established in 1995. the tfa stands as an innovative agreement not only for being the first multilateral agreement on new rules to have been negotiated under the auspices of the wto since it was created almost 20 years ago. it sets a pioneering approach by:- allowing developing and least developed countries to categorize commitments and determine the timing of their implementation. - linking implementation of some disciplines to the provision of technical assistance. - calling for joint action by donor countries, development assistance providers and developing and least developed country wto members to assist the latter in implementing some provisions of the agreement. - incorporating an expert group to assess the situation in a member once notified implementation periods have expired, and the use of the tfa committee as a forum for the exchange of experiences and deliberation. the agreement pursues a ‘positive integration’ through specific practices and –instead of refraining from using certain policies – contains approximately 40 provisions for expediting the movement, release and clearance of goods.
in writing. ‒ the tfa has breathed welcome new life into the wto and confirmed the multilateral arena remains the most effective place for global trade regulation. this agreement, which has been reached by consensus with developed and developing countries, seeks to reduce bureaucracy and corruption by modernising and standardising aspects of customs. it will prove most effective when appropriate technical assistance is given to developing countries, and the eu must be ready to assist.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote, as while i am in favour of free trade i do not believe the eu has competency in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because it will breathe new life into the world trade organisation. this agreement, which was reached through a consensus of both developed and developing countries will facilitate the battle against corruption and the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy and modernise aspects of customs.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement, but britain should be signing it not the eu! i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement, but britain should be signing it not the eu! i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report given the trade facilitation agreement, which has been reached by consensus with developed and developing countries, seeks to reduce bureaucracy and corruption by modernising and standardising aspects of customs. it will prove most effective when appropriate technical assistance is given to developing countries, and the eu must be ready to assist.
in writing. ‒ i, with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report as i believe it contributes to and complements the vote of the agreement well. the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) has many benefits, which will especially be felt by developing countries. with the ratification of the tfa in the european parliament before, i look forward to the positive effects of this new agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement, as it is good for the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which acknowledges the benefits that the implementation of this agreement will bring for developing countries given the contribution it will make to a more business-friendly environment, in particular for smes; emphasises, in particular, that the agreement ought to reduce uncertainty regarding market entry conditions and the costs of trade by between 12.5% and 17.5% (according to estimates – such as those by the oecd) if fully implemented, thus allowing consumers to access a larger and cheaper range of products and businesses to access new markets and improve their competitiveness by increasing efficiency and reducing unnecessary red tape and associated costs.
in writing. ‒ the tfa has breathed welcome new life into the wto and confirmed the multilateral arena remains the most effective place for global trade regulation. this agreement, which has been reached by consensus with developed and developing countries, seeks to reduce bureaucracy and corruption by modernising and standardising aspects of customs. it will prove most effective when appropriate technical assistance is given to developing countries, and the eu must be ready to assist.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote, while i am in favour of free trade i do not believe the eu has competency in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report from pablo zalba bidegain as i believe it contributes to and complements the vote of the agreement well. the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) has many benefits, which will especially be felt by developing countries. with the ratification of the tfa in the european parliament before, i look forward to the positive effects of this new agreement.
in writing. ‒ i do not accept the principle that austria, belgium and poland should require 'consent' of the european parliament to do anything.
in writing. ‒ the principle that austria, belgium and poland should require ‘consent’ of the european parliament to do anything, is, in my opinion absurd. this is one of many examples highlighting member states’ subservience to the eu institutions. hence, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving austria, belgium and poland the authorisation to ratify, or to accede to, the convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni) and thereby of facilitating their pursuit of a better harmonised policy on transport by inland navigation.
in writing. ‒ today, in the plenary session, it was a privilege to have given consent to the accession of the kingdom of belgium, the republic of poland and the republic of austria to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways. while this only represents the standard procedure through which member states want to become party to international agreements which fall under the competence of the eu, it was still a remarkable occasion to facilitate these three countries’ pursuit of a better harmonised policy on transport by inland navigation.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways was adopted by a diplomatic conference organised jointly by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe, and entered into force on 1 april 2005. it contributes to the internal market in the field of transport by harmonising contracts and inland navigation standards across europe. article 29 of the budapest convention contains provisions on the choice of law by the parties to a contract of carriage falling under the convention. those provisions affect the rules laid down in the rome i regulation (regulation (ec) no 593/2008 on the law applicable to contractual obligations). the budapest convention is thus an agreement falling partly under exclusive european union competence. however, the convention does not provide for the possibility for the union to become a party. nevertheless, member states cannot ratify or accede to it without an authorisation by the union (article 2(1) tfeu).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this due to the fact i do not believe that a nation state should have to ask for permission from the eu for anything.
in writing. ‒ today, in the plenary session, it was a privilege to have given consent to the accession of the kingdom of belgium, the republic of poland and the republic of austria to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways. while this only represents the standard procedure through which member states want to become party to international agreements (which fall – even partly – under the competence of the eu), it was still a remarkable occasion to facilitate these three countries' pursuit of a better harmonised policy on transport by inland navigation.
madam president, this is not just an historic day here in the european parliament, but also in the uk, as we mark the anniversary of our queen as the longest—serving reigning monarch. her first speech as a teenager was to show solidarity with child refugees who had left their homes to escape the dangers of the second world war. though the situation of those escaping from syria, libya and iraq today is very different from that of those escaping then, they face the same ordeal of having to flee their homes, often without any parent. there are 3 000 unaccompanied children in the camps in italy. what is being done to ensure that they are permanently relocated and given positive protection and support? that is why i voted for the keller report: because it is clear that we need to address the refugee crisis as the european union as a whole, and we need to do it now.
madam president, i have just voted against measures which would have effectively thrown open the doors of europe to migrants coming here regardless of who they are. it would have become an effective common asylum policy, taking away sovereignty from the nation states, allowing people to come here with no regard as to whether they are genuinely seeking asylum because they are in danger, or whether they have just turned up on the shores. this is yet another example of a knee-jerk reaction to a major, significant problem. they refuse to deal with the real issues in this place and all they do is say: ‘oh well, it is difficult, let us just open it up’. i suggest that all the people who so passionately here today have argued in favour of opening the doors to everyone follow the example that sir bob geldof has put forward – maybe they could offer to house many of these refugees, regardless of any checks on them, in their own homes, and then once they have led by example the rest of us could take them more seriously.
mister president, once again today the european union has taken a further step in crushing the nation-state and the ability of its people to vote for governments who make their own independent decisions on issues as important as immigration, migration and asylum. the proposals put before this house do not only deal with european union issues, but they have the arrogance of saying that we, the european union, can also change international law. we will extend the definition of asylum and refugee to include anyone who is poor from any country. in doing so, you have said to the world that we will open the door to everybody in africa, the middle east and asia who is not a genuine refugee, but simply wants to come here and work. the people who will see their wages reduced, their jobs displaced, the poor, the homeless and the people who have no voice in europe will be the ones who suffer because of the arrogance of people in this chamber.
mr president, has this chamber lost its collective mind? have we forgotten that for every one refugee in europe, there are 25 to 30 in jordan, lebanon and turkey alone? then we encourage these dangerous boat journeys, made often by those rich enough to pay traffickers and able bodied enough to travel in such ways, forgetting the plight of those who live in those countries? can we not think before we act, remember that the humanitarian crisis does not end at europe’s borders, and stop sleepwalking into causing the very deaths that we are supposed to be trying to prevent? i do not mind doing my bit but there are six rich gulf states which have taken zero syrian refugees. we need to encourage them to do their part as well. we need to remember that the world does not end at europe and get out of this insular ‘little european’ mindset.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it paves the way for considerable relocation of refugees and asylum seekers from italy and greece to the rest of europe. whilst this number is insufficient, the report acknowledges that it is only a start.
in writing. ‒ we need to remember that for each refugee within the eu, there are 25—fold in jordan, lebanon and turkey alone. we must not encourage the dangerous boat journeys, organised by criminal and terrorist people smugglers. we should appreciate that this tragic humanitarian crisis does not end at europe’s borders, and must take every step to make end the wicked ends of those who traffic people across the mediterranean. as the grandson of a refugee, i fully accept my responsibility to act on this tragedy, but there are many states, including those in the gulf, who are yet to fulfil their humanitarian obligations. they too, must play their part.
in writing. ‒ the key objective of the proposal is to establish measures that will relocate 40 000 migrant arrivals deemed to be ‘in need of international protection’ from the shores of italy and greece and move them to other eu member states. the united kingdom has an opt-out and is not required to accept any of the quota. the proposal calls for burden sharing and a common eu asylum policy, which ukip are fundamentally opposed to. it even allows migrants who have entered european countries illegally the opportunity to choose where they are to be relocated.
in writing. ‒ i along with my fellow s&d meps voted in favour of this report. i did so for a simple reason. i believe in showing solidarity with those facing a crisis. we must show more solidarity between us europeans, and to the rest of the world. we must create a truly european asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ along with my socialist colleagues, i voted for this report calling for a unified eu response in sharing responsibility for the ongoing crisis. i support the emergency binding mechanism to relocate an initial total of 40 000 asylum seekers from italy and greece to other member states. we need a pan-european approach which will ensure that families are kept together at all costs and give special protection to the most vulnerable, including unaccompanied minors.
in writing. ‒ this report comes at a time when europe is facing an unprecedented refugee crisis. it also comes at a time when my party is leading a debate in the united kingdom parliament on the issue. the tory government's attitude to the developing situation has been shameful and that shame is reflected in their voting pattern in this parliament today.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report, as it calls for a unified eu response responsibility sharing in light of the ongoing migrant crisis. it also states that priority should be given to vulnerable applicants, and among those, special attention should be given to unaccompanied minors. we must act now to prevent further loss of life and find a common lasting solution to the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the temporary measures for emergency relocation are only one part of the holistic approach to migration as outlined in the commission’s communication of 13 may 2015 entitled, ‘a european agenda on migration’ and the forthcoming own-initiative report by the european parliament. the european parliament stresses that all dimensions of the holistic approach are important and should be advanced in parallel. at its meeting of 25 and 26 june, the european council agreed, in particular, in the light of the current emergency situation and of the commitment to reinforce solidarity and responsibility, on the temporary and exceptional relocation over two years from italy and greece to other member states of 40 000 persons in clear need of international protection. member states should agree on binding quota for the distribution of such persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which calls for a unified eu response responsibility sharing in light of the ongoing migrant crisis. in addition, the report states that priority should be given to vulnerable applicants, and among those special attention should be given to unaccompanied minors.
in writing. ‒ because i believe strongly in showing more solidarity between we europeans, we must create a truly european asylum policy. this is why i voted in favour of this report today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it calls for a unified eu responseresponsibility to the ongoing migrant crisis. in addition, the report states that priority should be given to vulnerable applicants, and among those special attention should be given to unaccompanied minors.
mr president, cities are home to nearly 75% of eu citizens. cities are where two-thirds of our gdp is produced, and where the greatest challenges of our daily life lie too: tackling barriers to employment, social exclusion, pollution and climate change. however, as drivers of economic activity and innovation, cities are also where the solutions to these challenges can be found. the eu has already done great work on urban and regional development, especially in my region of the west midlands. cities like birmingham, coventry, stoke, worcester and wolverhampton all have areas where the eu has contributed to their growth. however, we also have to recognise that there is a lack of coordination on urban policies, both horizontally and vertically. that is why i supported kerstin westphal’s report and why i am urging the commission to ensure that towns and cities are much more closely associated with the entire european policy—making cycle and that the urban agenda is fully geared towards the objectives of eu 2020.
mr president, eu urban policies are an attempt to bypass the nation state to put eu policies directly into city regions. i warn the people of the west midlands – who are facing the prospect of a combined authority backed by the eu – that, if this happens, you should be ready for positive discrimination when it comes to council employees. be ready for congestion charges on your roads. be ready to pay to have your domestic waste removed. this is all part of the priorities imposed by the eu in order to put our money back into our cities. we must stand together as the people of the west midlands to fight against this west midlands combined-authority idea. it is counter—democratic, it is against what we believe in and it takes democracy further from the people. please join me, and let us fight this combined-authority idea and stop it dead.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for further eu action, and for more taxpayers' money to be spent. i oppose increases to eu spending.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for further eu action, and for more taxpayers’ money to be spent. i oppose increases to eu spending.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the underlying desire of this report to bring together stakeholders from across eu regions to discuss how eu initiatives can benefit urban communities and spaces. it is part and parcel of the eu that, at times, the nature of our relationship means that those regions that are on the periphery of europe, both in status, size and population, fail to witness the greatest benefits from proposals brought forward by this parliament. in my view, it is therefore crucial that all relevant forums are put in place to ensure that those towns and cities in smaller regions such as my own constituency, northern ireland, have their place in influencing eu initiatives. i am already aware of the work being carried out by the european unit of belfast city council in relation to the eurocities network, and i very much support any review that gives local urban populations a greater say in how european funding and other mechanisms can bring benefits to their everyday lives.
in writing. ‒ alongside my fellow labour meps, i voted in favour of this report as it acknowledges that although there is no explicit eu competence on urban development, there is a broad range of eu initiatives which have an impact on towns and cities directly. this is clearly demonstrated by a number of towns and cities across the north—west region of england, where i represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe eu policies can and should support and enable towns, cities and other urban areas to meet their full potential as motors of economic growth, employment and social inclusion. i support the creation of a european urban agenda and believe that we need to enhance the participation of cities, towns and their representatives in shaping urban-related policies in the management of programmes which receive eu funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important initiative report. the scottish cities alliance is a collaboration between the scottish government and scotland’s seven cities, and many of the issues covered in this report are relevant to the alliance’s work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it suggests that eu policies should support and enable towns, cities and functional urban areas to express and attain their full potential as motors of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, which calls for greater involvement of towns and cities in the structural and investment funds’ programmes; believes that the lessons drawn from this could feed into an important policy recommendation for the development of cohesion policy after 2020; in this context, calls on the commission to test the implementation of the european urban agenda in selected thematic fields, reflecting the challenges of urban areas (‘urban pilot projects’), in particular by ensuring the cross-sectoral coordination of different eu policies, removing existing overlaps and applying the multi-level governance model and conducting territorial impact assessments; asks the commission to report to parliament on the progress and results in this respect on a regular basis
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it recognises that although there is no explicit eu competence on urban development, a broad range of eu initiatives impact directly/indirectly on towns, cities and functional urban areas; is therefore of the opinion that well-developed and established national and regional urban policies are a prerequisite for a european urban agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not agree with giving more power to the eu commission, which i believe this report calls for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it acknowledges that although there is no explicit eu competence on urban development, there is a broad range of eu initiatives which impact towns and cities directly.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it recognises that although there is no explicit eu competence on urban development, a broad range of eu initiatives impact directly/indirectly on towns, cities and functional urban areas. i believe that well-developed and established national and regional urban policies are a prerequisite for a european urban agenda.
in writing. ‒ i can support aspects of this report relating to more coherent policymaking, increased knowledge sharing and a stronger voice for local and regional authority actors. however, i maintain concerns about key sections referring to the eventual scope and external dimension of any future eu urban agenda, and for this reason i was unable to support this report at the vote today.
blue-card question.– the joint resolution mentions the large amounts of investment by the eu in gaza, but the infrastructure this paid for was severely damaged during the 2014 conflict. for example, the north gaza waste water treatment plant was damaged, meaning that 95% of water in gaza is now unsafe to drink. i would like to ask mr brok whether he agrees, as suggested by the joint resolution, that we urgently need a list of eu-funded projects that were destroyed, with an indication of the cost of that destruction?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the prospects for the mena region look grim if one were to think of libya, syria and iraq. there is, though, a growing will from regional players to renew the efforts for the middle east peace process between israel and palestine. as egypt battles terrorist attacks in the sinai, saudi arabia worries about growing iranian influence after the nuclear deal and jordan faces every day increasing pressure from the scale of its refugee crisis, as well as those from palestine – also now from syria – we can be more optimistic that there is a real common interest now to pursue a deal. therefore i welcome the high representative’s call to the un quartet to relaunch the peace process and i do believe that the 2002 arab peace initiative should be used as a blueprint to start from, with the commitment to the two-peoples two-nations approach. with power shifting in the palestinian authority and hamas reportedly facing pressure now in gaza from isis, there is also reason to believe that those players at the centre of the debate are keen to see progress, for various different reasons as i have outlined. all too often the negotiations are undermined by focusing on the details too early, which is why contentious topics such as the status of jerusalem, east jerusalem, which settlements can stay or go, and the right of return for the palestinians must now be left to the end, following simpler confidence-building initiatives now at the beginning. for instance, in my view, cooperation on the eradication of the isis menace, which is a common enemy to all the parties, must be the number one priority.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, yesterday we had a four-hour negotiation meeting to hopefully secure a joint resolution on the middle east peace process. the gue/ngl group and my party, sinn fein, would prefer a stronger worded motion demanding the end of the occupation of palestine and the release of political prisoners, particularly the plc members who have been detained. i think, however, we all agree that the eu should be a dominant political player in the middle east peace process by advancing meaningful initiatives for a comprehensive solution. high representative, we believe that palestine should be placed under international protection and the eu should ensure the full implementation of the recommendations contained in the un independent commission of inquiry report into last year’s assault on gaza, including its recommendation to support actively the work of the icc. the eu should also ensure that no eu funds are allocated to israeli organisations involved in occupation activities, as a lever to apply pressure on the israeli government to re-engage in a meaningful peace process and to work for a two-state solution. of concern last week was the information imparted to a joint palestine and israel delegation meeting that israel is not prioritising a peace process. we were informed that it is virtually off israel’s foreign policy agenda. this is not acceptable, high representative, and i believe it must be challenged. we wish you all the best.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, what i have learned in my first year elected to this place is that the problem with the eu’s role in the middle east is that – to put it bluntly – political opinion often seems to favour one side of the argument. across many of the different eu institutions, it remains fairly uncritical of palestine and always puts the onus on israel. it seems to me that it is carrots for palestinians and a stick for israel. chairing the negotiation of a deal with a state that calls for the destruction of its neighbour, with massive grants of financial aid to gaza, whilst rockets are still being fired into israel, is hardly the best approach towards lasting peace. central to your involvement, commissioner, is support for the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa), with the eu as its largest multilateral donor. but, interestingly, my country, the uk, is not far off matching the total eu contribution. there remains a valid question about unrwa’s efficiency and what exactly the eu is funding, as well as concerns over unrwa’s governance. there always appears to be some budget crisis. commissioner, i would like to ask what assessments and audit checks the commission carries out on unrwa. in the past, unrwa has regrettably been a byword for corruption and waste. finally, there is a question as to what the role of the eu is in the continuing discussions with the quartet, un security council and various bilateral negotiations. is there not a danger of confusion with so many actors? is it the case that the eu wishes to be involved so that it can appear as a player, rather than bringing something constructive to the table? there needs to be fresh thinking outside the constraints of a two-state solution. in any case, there needs to be a more even-handed approach to israel. until such a time, i fear that the stalemate and tragedy on both sides will continue. if hamas were to renounce its call for the destruction of israel, it would be the first step on this long, rocky road.
mr president, in this debate let us show the responsibility not simply to rehearse old arguments or entrench past divisions. let us address what we can do now to bring people together for the future, and that should start with welcoming the new and active role being pursued by the high representative/vice president. we welcome the confidence which ms mogherini has established with the different parties, including the greater engagement to which she has committed herself again today with the arab partners. when she came to the committee on foreign affairs in july, mrs mogherini said mr netanyahu had told her that he had recommitted israel to a two-state solution, and she added that she now expected him to show it. we should join her in that expectation on all israelis and on all palestinians. to our palestinian friends, we were proud to pass the resolution in favour of a move towards recognition of your state, but we always said that this was not a substitute for direct talks. we hope the successful vote today to name our own delegation, specifically one with palestine, will be a further such encouragement. we note the efforts last week in qatar of your chief negotiator to seek hamas’ participation in a meeting of the palestinian national council. we encourage reconciliation, and should consider any further action the eu take can take to help achieve it. in today’s resolution, we will vote for full implementation of the recommendations made in the report of the un independent commission of inquiry, which identified war crimes of the 2014 gaza conflict, including to support actively the work of the international criminal court. it is right to do so. mr president, there will always be those who say nothing will change in the middle east, but today’s resolution is for peace, for justice and for statehood. there must be no third intifada.
mr president, i of course agree with the high representative that there can be no successful middle east peace process unless the international community – including ourselves – promotes responsible action on both sides. however, i am afraid the actions we continue to witness from the israeli government are not conducive to peace. the settlement building continues, despite being a blatant breach of international law. the european union response – your own response – is right and correct in the form of words, but failing in terms of any action. by our inaction, i think we give tacit support to an illegal occupation. the eu-israel association agreement has, under article 2, provisions for a formal human rights dialogue. we need to begin that dialogue immediately. if israel refuses to halt the settlement building, we should move to suspend the association agreement. trade preferences are carrots and sticks. if we are afraid to use the stick when facing such disregard for international law, then our claims to have values in our foreign policy become empty words. what is interesting, though, is that while the institutions drag their heels our citizens are demanding the opportunity to take action. they are demanding to have mandatory labelling on products so that they can choose to boycott products coming from the occupied territories. so i welcome the news that the commission will soon publish its proposal for labelling guidelines, but these must be mandatory guidelines showing that these are goods from illegally occupied territories. mandatory labelling is essential, both for giving consumers accurate information on what they buy and to take seriously our obligations for a fair – as well as free – trade policy.
mr president, the eu acting as the eu is actually in a much stronger position than many of our member states to intervene within this crisis. we have cleaner hands than most and a clear set of values upon which we are founded and exist to promote, so it is those values enshrined in international law that we need to be consistent in upholding. i will not repeat comments made by other colleagues, i will focus specifically on labelling of settlement produce because i think this is a small but psychologically significant lever that is entirely at our control and which i think does have a disproportionate effect within israel. let us be clear. israel has a right to exist and has a right to expect security within its own borders. it does not have a right to illegally occupy palestinian land or allow settlers to illegally occupy palestinian land and exploit it for their profit. ms mogherini, i was very pleased to hear you announce just last saturday that the eu will be pressing on with labelling of illegal produce. could you give us some more details of that, and a timescale whereby our citizens and our consumers can expect to see illegally-produced produce properly marked as such?
blue-card question.– do you agree with me that, in terms of migration and the refugee crisis in europe, one of the biggest problems is that for every refugee in europe, there are 25 to 30 refugees currently in turkey, lebanon and jordan? furthermore, do you accept that there is an issue with economic migration in the uk because, in the last year up to june 2015, only 4% of those coming into the uk were refugees and 96% were economic migrants?
madam president, the middle east peace process began with the signing of the oslo agreement over 21 years ago. since then many have lost faith that peace between palestinians and israelis is possible. aggressive expansion of jewish settlements in occupied palestinian territory has radically altered the geographical map. experts warn that territory for a viable peace based on a two-state solution is vanishing before our eyes. once upon a time, europe was riven with war; it took two world wars and the loss of millions of lives before we understood the futility of war and began our own peace process. the suffering of palestinians does not need to continue. we do not need another generation of young palestinians with lifelong hatred in their hearts. we are running out of time, but not out of options. let us use all our tools, diplomatic and economic, to create incentives so that this time peace has a real chance. it is for everyone’s good, including our own. mrs mogherini, good luck. you have our full support and endorsement.
blue-card question.– thank you for that speech. i agreed with very much of it. do you agree with me that attempts to label israeli products and, in some cases, for european countries and european towns to boycott israeli products, are totally counterproductive and totally missing the point that israel is actually the real democracy in the area and has made a remarkable achievement to maintain that status in the light of the circumstances it faces? would you agree with that?
madam president, i would like to thank to all my colleagues who have worked on this timely resolution on a complex situation. the peace process is taken to mean political negotiations between israel and the palestinians. but the process of making peace – real, vibrant and viable peace – depends on real people and real communities. i would therefore like to highlight the work of civil society organisations, artists, academics and activists who are striving to build coexistence and dialogue between communities; organisations who seek to build tolerance, understanding and openness. these include the israeli-palestinian bereaved families forum, made up of parents who have lost a loved one in the war and work together for peace, ecopeace/friends of the earth middle east, who connect israelis and palestinians in a fight for the environment, and breaking the silence, who are israeli veterans who explain the wrongs of the occupations to israeli society. the eu must take into account this grassroots work and these organisations. but the real question is how can eu institutions conduct a dialogue on the preservation of the two-state solution? (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs.– madam president, first of all let me say to the last two speakers that maybe they came into the hemicycle at the wrong time, because we are discussing the peace process between israel and palestine. we were discussing the syrian and migration issues this morning. let me – even if it is not my role – maybe apologise to members of the public who are probably following this debate more closely than some of the members of this hemicycle. (applause) let me thank you all for the support that you are expressing for the european union’s stand and action when it comes to the middle east peace process. let me thank you sincerely for that. i think that a united position of this parliament is going to contribute in a way that, as some of you know very well, is important; some others might not imagine, but it is going to count a lot. let me also say, as sincerely as i always try to be, that some of your expectations might need to be carefully looked at. i do not want to downsize any of the expectations, but the work is going to be long and very difficult. it is true that we have an opportunity, as the european union, because on this issue we are more united than we believe. even though we are facing multiple crises all around us, i have been discussing and working on this very same issue with the foreign ministers of all the 28 member states for the last four meetings of the foreign affairs council, and we have unanimous conclusions and different stands, different political views, different histories of the countries that are members of the european union, but we have a united policy on the european union’s role when it comes to the middle east peace process. so i will put all my energy and determination, as i have been doing since the beginning of my mandate, into trying to, as i said, restart the engine of this process and avoid the vacuum that we have been facing now for more than one year. however – and i would count on your support in doing this, and on our unity – results will be difficult and will take time, that is if we manage to get results. maybe the first steps will be very limited results, or sometimes we will have negative results and then sometimes positive results. difficult deals and agreements take time and patience. this is just because i have heard a lot of good luck messages. i take this with enthusiasm, as you know, but we have to be realistic about the fact that the starting point today is a very difficult one for us to be realistic on regarding the situation in front of us. i think antonio panzeri described it, taking the words of a former president in the best possible way. i see our role as trying to help the parties to find the tunnel at the end of which there is light, and at the same time keeping the light at the end of the tunnel alive, because this is not to be taken for granted. we have these two challenges, these two works, in my view, to do: helping the parties to come together and find the right way, because there is no alternative, no substitute for direct talks – we have to be very clear about that – and keeping the perspective of peace and of the two states, the perspective towards which we are working. because yes, there are doubts in the international communities, in the parties themselves, that this perspective of the two-state solution and of the peace process is still there. our work has to be focused on this. and new initiatives: given this framework, the picture is not rosy; it is not encouraging at all. i think our role is to build conditions to get to initiatives. we can always have big international conferences. what is difficult is to prepare the big initiatives and to make sure that these initiatives then have results. conferences after conferences after conferences do not solve the problem. the real point is now trying to rebuild a modicum of trust and trying to put an agenda on the table that can allow the parties to take some steps forward instead of some steps back, which is exactly what is happening today: reverse the process. i am sorry, i did not want to give you a cold shower, but we are talking about something extremely ambitious and extremely difficult, even if we take these minimum goals in front of us, and obviously something that i referred to in my opening remarks: building this regional and international framework. i am really convinced that if we have one way of playing our role to the full, as europeans in the middle east peace process, it is in partnership with our partners in the region, starting from our arab friends. because here we have two different conflicts and crises: one is between the palestinians and the israelis, but the other one is between the israelis and the arab world at large, and you cannot imagine – or some of you imagine and know very well – that from the far east to latin america this is an issue that, if it is not solved, contributes to creating radicalisation and also hate. so we have a global responsibility that we can play with our global partners. indeed, we do have an opportunity: the iranian deal that we will discuss, hopefully, in a couple of hours gives us a little bit of credibility in the sense that it is something that shows that multilateralism and diplomacy can work and lead to results, and our unity also gives us a chance. it is also our consistency that gives us a chance to play a role. one of you mentioned something that it is very important to me, and i thank those who raised it, because i did not mention it at the beginning and i take the chance to do so now: our work with international organisations, and in particular with unrwa. we faced a major crisis over the summer. unrwa was clearly desperately saying that the danger of not re—opening the schools for palestinian kids was very real, and it is thanks to the european union’s additional financial support that we managed to avoid the situation whereby palestinian children in the camps were not able to go to school at the beginning of the school year. we avoided this, and in this way made a very important contribution. this is also an important role that the european union plays. i well remember saying to the hemicycle the very first time we had a debate on the middle east peace process that we have to be not only a payer but also a player. continuing to be a payer is also relevant in the conditions we are facing. so this is something that we have to maintain. some of you asked about the labelling. i can share with you what i shared with the ministers at the weekend. i recently asked the services of the commission, in particular dg trade, to complete and finalise the work on the european guidelines. it is not a matter of taking new decisions – decisions were taken long ago – but a matter of implementing them in a european way. so there is no decision needed: it is an implementation thing that for me has to do primarily with transparency for our consumers. it is not a boycott. i know very well that there are different positions in this room about that. my institutional and political starting point is that this is a decision that we owe to our citizens and our consumers, because they have the right – and the legal right, according to our european rules – to know the origin of the products they buy or that they decide not to buy. it is a matter of transparency for me. also because i believe – and we discussed this the last time we were here in this room discussing the peace process – that our role is to try to facilitate and to build bridges. this means, as one of you mentioned, not taking one side, even if we see the limits of both sides. some of us see more the limits of one or the other or both. i think there is no one in this room who does not see any limit of any of the two parts. still, our role – if you want to play a role – in re-starting the process and bringing it to some positive result is to build bridges, to build confidence, to engage and not to punish. this is my stand. this is something that we do in full respect and, as always, that is the basis for the european union’s action in international and foreign policy, in full respect of, and compliance with, international law. that is why my reaction to every step forward that is taken on the settlement is always immediate, because this is something that we do not and could not recognise in international law. this is illegal – but boycotting is another story. i hope i was clear: it is a matter of transparency that we owe to our consumers. let me finish by saying that in trying to have a role in bringing the parties together, the sense of unity that can come from this parliament is essential, because again, if we are not able among us europeans to find a unified vision of the middle east peace process, how can we ask the parties in the conflict itself to find a common vision and how can we aspire to facilitate the mediation? showing that we can find common ground – and i know that each of you has a particular point of view – gives us strength like nothing else. i would like to thank you for your support and for your expectations, even if i would ask you to keep them under control, especially regarding the timing. i would also encourage you to go forward in finding common ground, because this is also the basis for us to ask the parties to find common ground themselves.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs– madam president, first of all, thank you for having this issue on the agenda of today’s plenary. i very much appreciate your long-standing interest and our cooperation on this important neighbouring country. let me start immediately with the latest and most relevant development, which we also discussed with the foreign ministers in our informal meeting a few days ago. the release of all political prisoners just two weeks ago represented a long-sought step that was also welcomed by this parliament. since the december 2010 post-election crackdown, we had consistently called for their release. restrictive measures were imposed and our cooperation with the national authorities was put on the back burner by comparison with the other eastern partnership countries. it is important to ensure that all former political prisoners can exercise their full civil and political rights and, of course, that no new politically-motivated imprisonments take place. in response to the release of political prisoners and in the context of the october presidential elections – the conduct of which will be extremely important – we need to send a clear signal to belarus. we wish to move towards a further improvement in our relations, based on mutually-encouraging steps. i started discussions on the prospects in this regard with the foreign ministers in our informal meeting in luxembourg last friday. of course we realise that the situation has not changed in a systemic way. belarus remains the only country in europe to still apply the death penalty. civil and political rights, such as freedom of association and assembly and freedom of expression and media, remain restricted. in addition, the country’s economic and financial situation is extremely difficult. still, in this context and taking a step back, one can see that the european union’s consistent policy of critical engagement over recent years has yielded some positive results and contributed to an improvement in eu-belarus relations. after the very difficult period of 2011-2013, eu-belarus relations have been improving since the start of 2014 and have intensified in 2015 in the form of a number of positive developments: pro-active participation by belarus in the eastern partnership, the recent resumption of the human rights dialogue and the country’s constructive stance in the context of the crisis in ukraine. as a result, several high-level visits to belarus took place in the first six months of this year to build on these openings. it is also encouraging that belarus has agreed to the deployment of a fully-fledged osce electoral observation mission and that this mission has so far been able to set up and operate without restrictions. four hundred short-term observers are expected to be deployed. in january, in recognition of the opportunity to announce the european union policy of critical engagement vis-a-vis belarus, the member states agreed a list of measures that could be implemented if the conditions were right. a number of these measures have already been activated, including the signing of an early-warning mechanism in the area of energy supply, the launch of negotiations on a mobility partnership, and promoting approximation by belarus to the bologna education principles. i am convinced that, in addition to reacting proportionately to new events in the country and, obviously, remaining true to our values of democracy and human rights, we should implement a longer-term strategy focused on building links between the european union and belarus and on supporting the reforms the people of belarus need and want so much. in this respect i looked with great interest at the european parliament delegation visit to minsk last june – the first such visit since 2002, as far as i know – and noted that the members of this parliament came back with a mixed and yet rather positive message tending in the same direction: the call for keeping communication channels open, resuming dialogue and working closely together. for the first time since the end of 2010 it is possible to imagine more constructive relations between the european union and belarus, and i am convinced that it is worth seizing on this moment and embarking on a more positive agenda with one of the european union’s immediate neighbours and a key country in the partnership. i am ready and willing to listen to the discussions today and to work with you along these lines.
blue-card question.– i note that the six political prisoners freed have not had their full civil rights restored. so, for example, if they wished to stand as opposition candidates of the current authority in belarus, they would not be permitted to do so. in your view, is lifting that condition a prerequisite for free and fair presidential elections in belarus?
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting the blue card. i know that you are very keen about ensuring that democracy is complete. my question is a ‘what if’: what if you find the democracy is complete – full and fair elections – everything is as you wish, but then the democratically elected government still wishes to maintain, as part of its mandate, the death penalty? what would the position be then with the democratic government, with the people having voted on the issue? what would you do then, or would you recommend?
madam president, having already passed the 20-year mark in office, lukashenko will no doubt do whatever it takes next month in the elections to win his sixth mandate as president. lukashenko has been a key ally in putin’s expansionist plans for russia and has led belarus to becoming one of the founding members of the eurasian union. the crisis in ukraine has confirmed the true level of putin’s ambitions, and those ambitions were confirmed not just to eu member states but also to belarus and kazakhstan. the eu should, of course, be open to a new political direction for belarus, and we must leave the door ajar diplomatically. we should not, however, lull ourselves into the false pretence that lukashenko is a democrat or interested in anything other than achieving his own political survival. as the report suggests, the fighting in ukraine is now at its lowest level, and we must thank the minsk agreement – in part brokered by him – as a way of beginning the process of ensuring lasting peace in ukraine. but ukraine needs more military and financial support in order to stabilise and ensure that the peace is permanent. furthermore, whilst i welcome the release of political prisoners, such gestures do little to alleviate the chronic civil and human rights abuses in belarus. i remember that 10 years ago i called belarus the cuba of europe, and i am afraid it still remains that today.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, no one wants self-congratulation when the challenges we face are so serious, but the iranian nuclear deal was a notable european achievement – personally for the high representative, for her predecessor and for their team. in the last week, some would think that the only importance was the reaction inside the us congress, but today’s debate demonstrates european support for a european deal. we should not be deflected in developing our own european strategy to follow up its implementation. europe expects iran to keep its promises, but we have to show we will be a reliable partner in keeping our own promises in return. we have heard from the high representative about the setting-up of the interinstitutional task force and i would like to ask her about the parliament’s role in that task force in helping bring forward a new era of cooperation ranging from energy to education to the environment, as she outlines. we endorsed the proposal for the opening of an eu delegation in tehran. but europe is not, and will not, be uncritical. europe’s response can and must strengthen reformists within iran. we will criticise the death penalty, but when 80% of the executions are drug-related – and the iranians told us themselves that their policies in combating drugs are failing – surely eu cooperation in the fight against drugs can have some real influence. similarly, we have a difficult but essential job to engage iran in the fight against isis and in resolving the conflicts within the region, thus dealing with the causes of today’s migrant crisis, not just its symptoms. but today america is talking to the russians and the russians are talking to the iranians. we need to talk about how we can engage iran in the cause of peace. finally, recognising the important statement of the saudi foreign minister expressing satisfaction with the assurances about the deal, the wariness the israelis have expressed to me is this: that this is a deal for 15 years, but, they ask, what about 15 years and one day? we can find an answer. in europe’s cooperation with iran we can seek development, which means there will be no going back. we did a nuclear deal. we now have to make sure it is a deal for development, a deal for modernity, a deal for peace. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i was part of the european delegation with christian and the other colleagues that went to tehran, and we were very careful not to second-guess the very detailed negotiations that ms mogherini and her team undertook in vienna. i do not intend to do so today. are there risks in any agreement? of course there are risks, but the risks of a covert nuclear programme in iran, where people were talking about bombing it as the way of stopping it, were far greater. to have this nuclear agreement is something that we should be celebrating, and i believe you and i probably ultimately agree about that.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, despite warnings from critics, it is right to welcome the p5+1 diplomatic breakthrough in concluding a nuclear deal with iran, and i extend my congratulations to high representative mogherini. the alternatives – military, in particular – were unrealistic and had the potential to cause further fall-out in an already destabilised region. we should not allow a new-found cooperation with iran, however, to blind us from past experience. the regime in iran is no stranger to being economical with the truth, and it will be the enforcement and verification measures of the deal that will judge it to have been a success or failure. ensuring that iran complies with the terms agreed and being prepared to swiftly reimpose eu economic sanctions are absolutely crucial. the deal should also not deter the eu and its member states from criticising iran where necessary. its continued human rights abuses and sponsorship of terrorism have not been tamed by the so-called moderate president rouhani. under his leadership, the number of executions, including of political dissenters and minorities, has soared, with the average now standing at around two per day. we in my group rightly and readily condemn the barbarity of isis, but the iranian regime – isis’ mortal enemy – is only marginally better. furthermore, we cannot ignore iran’s funding of groups such as hamas and hezbollah and its continued stoking of sectarian power plays in lebanon, syria and bahrain. the migrant crisis has illustrated to us that europe cannot exist in isolation in a globalised world. it is difficult to shield ourselves in europe from the events and problems of the middle east, but we must not let this deal allow iran to cause us further mischief. the uk – my country – has just reopened its embassy in tehran, so it is probably now time for a small eu delegation there too.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, a clear majority of the people of scotland are very strongly in favour of the abolition of nuclear weapons – nuclear disarmament – so it is all the more of a democratic outrage that scotland hosts the entire uk nuclear arsenal. but that is a discussion for another day; it is a shame mr tannock has left us. on their behalf, i very strongly welcome this deal as an important step forward globally –as our high representative rightly says – of an example towards nuclear non—proliferation. so we very much endorse the praise and recognition that ms mogherini, her team and indeed her predecessors do rightly deserve. yes, the stars had to align in a wider context, but this was the eu acting as the eu for perhaps the first time, where we played a significant central role that nobody else could have done in bringing this deal home. i think that does deserve the recognition that we have heard tonight. we had a pressing need to bring iran in from the cold. the cold war between saudi arabia and iran is right now having grave consequences in the region. in yemen, iraq, syria and elsewhere, we are seeing interference by both countries in the internal affairs of their neighbours. the global community had to find a way to reboot our relationship with iran, a country that could, and should, be a strong ally. i do not think it is fanciful to think of iran in those terms in a number of areas. so what does the future look like, now that we can think about a new relationship? i would strongly endorse ms schaake’s comments, and again the eu can play a role in this. we have a lot of experience in bringing mistrusting parties together. high representative, what thought has been put into confidence-building measures across the arabian, or indeed the persian gulf between the gulf states and iran, where a deep mistrust has been allowed to develop? also, on human rights, iran’s record – as we rightly say tonight – is poor. that is not unique within the region, of course, but this house in march 2014 called for an eu—iran human rights dialogue. can you assure us that that remains a central plank of our engagement? on trade, where we really do have muscle and leverage, after years of sanctions the eu trade diplomacy surely gives us real leverage over iran and that dialogue. is it too early to talk of an eu-iran trade deal? if it is, perhaps we can start thinking in that direction to encourage them into that dialogue.
blue-card answer. – this agreement has given the european union a chance to see itself as the arbitrator of european security and prosperity. however, in negotiating this very deal, you may well have achieved the complete opposite, due to the wide mistrust over iran’s stance towards israel and their influence in both yemen and palestine. while president rouhani may be a moderate, we must remember that, without changes to iran’s political and governance systems, there is no assurance that a traditionalist or a fundamentalist will not take control in the future, removing the current supreme leader’s fatwa forbidding nuclear weapons. we should respectfully bear in mind that ayatollah khamenei is now 76 years old. the middle east has enough security challenges as it is, without adding a toxic mix of re—energised nuclear proliferation. where there are now better positions to develop nuclear weapons, will we see further middle east nations seek to become nuclear powers? already, the saudis have a nuclear agreement with pakistan that potentially allows them to look towards nuclear weapons. commissioner, i cannot see how this secures either the middle east or the rest of the world. with this agreement comes responsibility, and i sincerely hope and pray that iran uses this opportunity to start in the right direction by reassuring the world of good intentions, not least by removing her support for anti-government forces in the yemen. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– mr jakovčić, quite frankly, if you listen to my speech you will hear that what i was saying was that there is a danger of people counting their chickens before they have hatched. one has to look at the wider perspective. as you may well know, i am very interested in the issues surrounding the yemen civil war, and certainly iran’s proxy in that area – not least with support for palestine and with continual negative comments about israel – leads me to err on the side of caution. i think it is important that this house reflects all views from across the european union.
mr president, as chairman of the iraq delegation, i have been following the talks between the west and iran with great concern. just one day after signing this deal, and iran is shelling our allies in yemen. while dressed up as a peace deal, this is just appeasement. this agreement trivialises the iranian regime’s human rights violations. more than 2 000 people have been hanged by the ‘moderate’ president rouhani whom you, ms mogherini, were happy to take tea with. this is the highest level of executions for 25 years, 1 000 forecast by this year end: the highest number of executions per head in the world. the group-think mentality of the eu and p5+1 has resulted in every obstruction from the iranians, rewarded with more giveaways. iranian officials have described negotiations as a form of jihad by other means. this deal frees up millions of euros for yet more sponsorship of terror. they are just laughing at us. under the agreed framework for 10 years, iran will never be further than one year from a nuclear weapon, and then it will get the bomb. this deal is utter folly. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card question.– i am grateful to you, mr campbell bannerman, for giving way, and i pay tribute to your work on the iraq delegation where we both work – and it is a pleasure to work with you – but i flatly disagree with your comments tonight. in any deal there is an element of unpalatable compromise, and we had to find a way to bring iran in from the cold and into the global dialogue. would you also extend the criticism which you rightly make of the human rights record and the interference in neighbouring countries to saudi arabia and indeed to uk government policy, which is more predicated upon selling as many guns, tanks and bombs to the current regime in saudia arabia as possible?
blue-card answer.– alyn, thank you for your support for the iraq delegation. i do not think that this compromise works: i think it gives too much away and endangers peace in the middle east; it does not actually secure it. i do not like the idea of a nuclear power in iran, because it could become a suicide bomber state. it could actually use the bomb, and so it is more destabilising. i think it is desperately dangerous and that is why i oppose it. regarding saudi arabia, yes, i do think we need to look at that more closely.
mr president, this agreement is a victory for diplomacy over confrontation. congratulations to ms mogherini and her predecessor, ms ashton, for successfully concluding the negotiations. however, we must not rest on our laurels. we must now breathe life into this deal by ensuring its rigorous implementation, and work towards making the entire middle east nuclear weapon-free. it is important that we further strengthen relations with iran as a key player within the middle east. we must use the deal to create stability, which in turn will foster regional economic and development cooperation. we are seeing the impact of regional instability on our own borders, with hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing in search of a safe land. the vienna agreement therefore opens new avenues for constructively engaging with iran on regional security issues, such as combating isis, ending the bloody civil war in syria and stabilising iraq and yemen. this agreement gives us hope for long-term sustainable peace in the middle east.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i want to thank martina dlabajová for her excellent report on creating a creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century. this really deserves our support. the progress of the report has not been easy, and i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for her constructive and positive enthusiasm to reach agreement. it is a good example of why, just because something is difficult, we should not give up. it is worth fighting for, and it has produced very worthwhile ideas which are concise and targeted and can add real value to the employability and prosperity of people. i will focus on just a couple of areas in particular: entrepreneurship and work—based learning. the report highlights the need to remove bureaucratic obstacles with which smes are confronted and enable them to achieve their full job—creation potential. it highlights the need to promote an entrepreneurial mindset in europe: the need for institutions to be more business—friendly and to support young people in transforming their ideas into successful business plans. it also recognises the importance of fostering work—based learning – apprenticeships – as the alternative route to employment. i was very privileged to visit the goodwin group in stoke-on-trent last friday. it is an engineering company established in 1883, and they believe that a radical new approach is needed to raise the level of the individual worker to the standard required for the future. so they have built their own state—of—the—art training school with a centre of excellence for 125 engineering apprentices. the majority of training is in the form of one-to-one placements, and it leads to a variety of worthwhile and fulfilling careers within the group – a great example of matching skills with demand and creating really good job opportunities.
mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner and minister for their responses to the oral question, but unfortunately it is just not enough. there is a worrying trend developing in the eu and one which is rapidly undermining our existing standards in creating a race to the bottom. the spread of zero-hours contracts, mini jobs and bogus self-employment is becoming a real threat to existing rights and it needs to be stopped. it is very easy to pass the buck and say it is an issue for national governments; something to be resolved at national level. but the truth is that it is just not happening. nothing is being done and the situation is getting worse. for example, recent statistics have shown there are now an estimated 1.8 million zero-hours contracts in the uk, an increase of nearly 20% in the past year alone. given that the majority of people on these contracts have been with their current employer for over a year working on average 23 hours a week, does the commission not understand that these contracts threaten the standards created to protect workers? why are we allowing a system where people – often young, often women and often close to the poverty line – are expected to work full-time hours when it suits the employer but given no protection or guarantee of employment in return? it is not sustainable, and it certainly is not fair. they still have to feed their kids and pay their rent. we constantly hear, and we did tonight, about the need for flexibility in the employment market. but, commissioner, this is outright abuse and the problem is spreading. so let us not pass the issue off by saying it is just a problem for member states to deal with. let us look at action that can be taken at all levels. i fear if we do not address this issue now it will continue to spread and our achievements to bring social justice and employment rights for all will sadly be a thing of the past.
mr president, i am sure we all are familiar with the harry potter film in which the goblins speak gobbledygook. well, i note with interest that the rapporteur has adopted that language in drafting this document. has the eu also adopted it as its official language? it seems so. how else can we explain the desire for a return to luddism that is reflected in the policy proposals we see here? technology – or to use the new word that has been invented ‘automisation’ – is to be kicked to the kerb in order to keep people in menial jobs. we have all experienced the frustration at a self-service checkout, but is that sufficient to warrant european legislation stopping technological progress? these are the very industries and start-ups that are often helped via eu funding. economic growth is not achieved by the ‘stop the world, i want to get off’ attitude which the eu seems to embrace. already we have seen global market output predicted to fall to 14.2% – down from 30.9% in the 1980s. under the european employment scheme eures, only 25 jobs have gone to british applicants out of a total of 3 887 placements. that works out at eur 45 400 per job to the british taxpayer and highlights once again why eu membership is not in britain’s best interest. now we have the proposals for the european minimum wage framework – further hammering home how many of the powers that should be in the hands of our mps in westminster have been passed on to the unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
mr president, as far as jobs go, there is an elephant in the room, although not – unless i blinked and missed it – in the rapporteur’s report: the disastrous currency zone of the euro is surely a major factor behind high unemployment in the eu. unemployment is highest and job creation lowest in the countries least suited to being in a currency zone dominated by germany. countries like greece and spain needed their own currencies so they could depreciate to protect activity levels in the worst of the crisis. the euro meant they could not do that, so activity levels collapsed, taking jobs with them. thanks in part to the recent application of quantitative easing (qe), there has been some softening of the euro, but there is, of course, no chance of greece or spain depreciating against germany. when the german economy is going full pelt again, no doubt there will be pressure for qe to end, interest rates to rise and the euro to rise again in value. for southern europe the era of mass unemployment is here to stay for as long as the euro is.
mr president, we have had a lengthy debate about the eu labour market, but in my opinion there is no such thing as an eu labour market. we have 28 diverse countries with very different needs. we cannot have a ‘one size fits all’ approach to all those countries. right-wing economics might work in germany but if we try to apply that to greece, as we are doing, then it is doomed to absolute failure and disaster. we are told that there are 25 million unemployed across europe but there are two million job vacancies. why, though, is the assumption made that somehow immigration will solve all of this problem? jobs may be unfilled for many reasons, and cross-border migration does not necessarily solve that and, of course, in most countries there are more unemployed than jobs available. i suspect so many in this chamber are desperate to defend the indefensible that they will claim more immigration is the solution for absolutely everything. free movement of workers will pass no national test but is welcomed here with a quasi-religious fervour as almost an article of faith.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this seems to be the tip of the iceberg. this clearly looks like eu harmonisation of healthcare systems by the back door, but using pricing of drugs as the mechanism. i would like to point out that there is a huge difference between the insurance- and privatised—based model of healthcare prevalent in most of europe and the contributory taxation—based national health service model that we have in the united kingdom. i am not at all sure that this step, which seems to be being launched, will not represent a disastrous threat to the quality, cost and provision of uk healthcare services. my voters and my citizens do not want that. we have got stop blaming the elderly. many of the chronic healthcare conditions that create the demand are coming about because of lifestyle choices by patients and by individuals of all age groups. we need to do more – if we are going do anything at all – to tackle the source of those problems and start talking about the business interests and the lobbying companies that push the products and create the environmental factors that create the illnesses and the problems for the eu. i would finally like to point out that if you cannot control your borders, cannot control your population and cannot control demand, you will never, ever be able to meet supply. so if healthcare systems cannot plan because they do not know the number of patients, they do not stand a chance.
blue-card question.– we’ve discussed migration in some detail, but one issue that hasn’t been raised very often is that, in the uk and a number of other countries within europe, we bring in doctors and nurses from the philippines and from very poor countries like malawi. we’re actually depriving some of the poorest countries in the world of much needed professionals, and i believe that’s because we’re not training enough doctors and nurses in the uk and the rest of europe. do you agree with that assessment?
mr president, my brother worked as an aid worker in malawi, and at that time that country had the lowest number of medical professionals per capita in the world. he saw massive, massive queues – he ended up working actually as a surgeon’s assistant out there – and the conditions were horrific. yet even though that country had so few health care professionals, we still imported doctors and nurses from those countries to come and work in the british health care system, and the same happens in other countries in europe. that has a massive, negative, profound impact on those countries, and i just wanted to raise that issue – that problem – and to say that we need to think about the ethics of what we’re doing when that happens.
author.– madam president, let me start by thanking the commissioner for coming to speak to us today. as one of the rapporteurs for parliament’s implementation report on the anti-trafficking directive to be drafted later this year, i am very happy, commissioner, to hear from you. the eu actually has a good record on action to protect victims of human trafficking. in 2011, the anti-trafficking directive was held up globally as the gold standard in protection of victims because it adopts a gender-specific approach. although the very nature of this crime makes it difficult to get reliable data on the numbers of victims, the eurostat report earlier this year estimated that between 2010 and 2012 there were over 30 000 victims registered in 28 member states, 80% of which were women. these figures do not, of course, include the huge numbers of victims who are not identified by authorities as victims of human trafficking. although victims are varied, held and controlled for a variety of reasons, we cannot dismiss the significant gender dimension of this crime. the majority, which is 69% of identified victims, were trafficked for sexual exploitation and 95% of that number were women. these numbers show that however good the eu is at tackling this issue, we cannot rest on our laurels. so whilst this crime constitutes a huge abuse of fundamental rights, it continues and is hugely profitable for the traffickers. our work to protect victims must be vigilant and ongoing. why, then, do we tolerate the lack of engagement by national authorities? how come, commissioner, they are not pursued for the figures that they have committed to feed to your officers? it is clear that some countries have achieved a great deal and are cracking down on trafficking, whilst others have still to implement the directive fully and are dragging their feet in recognising this crime. what more evidence do they need to take real action, to which their governments have already committed themselves, in order to rescue the victims and pursue the perpetrators? how much longer do these people, who are controlled and sold as so much baggage, have to wait to get justice? the evidence shows that human trafficking is an issue that european people want to see tackled with coordinated european action. when asked which forms of violence against women the eu should prioritise, trafficking in human beings comes out very high. the transnational nature of these crimes means that we can only address both the root causes, the rescue and care of victims, and the punishment of perpetrators, if we work together at both source and destination countries. the commission must come forward quickly with its post-2016 strategy towards the eradication of human trafficking. we in parliament look forward to receiving these proposals so that we can work closely with you to crack down on this vile trade. the commission must also ensure that they are monitoring and implementing the anti-trafficking directive in every single member state. we hope that parliament’s upcoming work on this will help feed into this work. trafficking is a crime committed upon the most vulnerable and those victims deserve better protection, but we cannot do that effectively unless we know the state of play in each and every member state. however, it is important to remember as we debate migration and human smuggling this week that human trafficking is a different, truly vile trade that abuses victims’ human rights. commissioner, we look forward to working with you in the coming months to tackle this crime.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i too very much welcome what the commissioner has said, and the action that is going to be taken, and particularly, commissioner, that you are intending to make sure that responsibility is on the users of sexual services and not on the victims. as we have all said, trafficking is primarily a gender issue for women. it is so important that we work across europe to deal with trafficking and that we acknowledge the emerging tactics of the traffickers themselves, who seem always to be one step ahead in this issue of modern slavery. i also think it is important because i represent london, which is a major destination for traffickers, and as the eu goes into a period where we are preparing for a referendum on eu membership, i believe that the issue of human trafficking will be an important debate in that. it is women and girls who are being trafficked who are some of the most vulnerable people that we have to deal with. this is a european problem, and i believe that it has european solutions.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president. it is the freedom of movement between countries that is enabling and encouraging this criminality, whether it is perpetrated against men, women, boys or girls. having no possibility of any checks at any border obviously makes it easier than ever for people to be trafficked across our continent. the uk government admits that eu free movement rules are helping organised criminal gangs to traffic and move not only illegal goods, but also people. in a report from 2014 on the balance of competences, they say: ‘free movement within the eu is extensively exploited by organised criminals to bring illicit commodities including drugs, human trafficking victims, illegal immigrants and counterfeit goods to the uk.’ europol admits that the free movement of people and goods across the eu’s internal borders reduces the chances of detection. eurostat asserts that 68% of people trafficked are women, and this is indeed a shocking percentage. however, surely the aim should be to end trafficking altogether – not worry about what gender-specific measures the commission should take. free movement rules make trafficking easier for those who deal in human exploitation. we have to take steps to make this crime logistically impossible, we have to punish the criminals, and we have to punish them in such a way that it acts as an effective deterrent. only then will this modern—day form of slavery be at an end.
blue-card question. – ms bizzotto, would you agree with me that the best common-sense way to deal with this awful crime – which for me as a man is a very emotional thing to hear about – is to firm up border controls so that we can properly check who comes and goes between our countries?
madam president, we are discussing an age-old problem: slavery and sexual exploitation. in a world where desperate people are migrating in vast numbers, the environment is perfect for people-traffickers to thrive. we have an obligation to deal with this. we need tough border checks. we need heavy punishment for the evil, criminal traffickers. we need cooperation between sovereign nation states to fight this international crime. the truth is, the rule of law – and most particularly international law – is better enforced with effective border control. we have an obligation to these people – to these ladies and children who have been trafficked in this evil manner – to make sure that we do everything we can to safeguard their freedom, and give them a better future.
mr president, angola has never been a western-style democracy, being effectively a one-party mpla-dominated state, but things have improved with the new constitution of 2010 and there has been relative political stability after the ceasefire with unita in 2002. but more recently, president santos’ government has become more intolerant of press freedom by arresting human rights defenders and journalists such as marcos mavungo. there are serious allegations of torture and a climate of police repression. corruption is unfortunately endemic in that country with its vast oil and mineral wealth, with the wealth concentrated in the hands of a very small urban political elite. angola has many eu – mainly portuguese – citizens working there and is a signatory to the cotonou agreement which commits it to a high standard of fundamental civil and political rights, and it does need now more transparency in its extractive industries. there is an ongoing military campaign in cabinda, which is seeking self-determination as a territory, but this must not be an excuse for the crackdown now by the authorities which we are currently witnessing in that vast country.
author.– mr. president, allow me to start with a quote from an old – but not that old – strasbourg speech from 14 years ago: ‘azerbaijan has definitely chosen the road of integration into europe, getting orientated towards its humanistic and democratic values’ – wise words indeed from president heydar aliyev in 2001. and yet eu-azerbaijan relations are a story of disappointments, and – let us be honest – probably mutual disappointments. we know, for instance, that azerbaijan is frustrated with the lack of progress over nagorno-karabakh. we also know that it feels that, far too often, the international community disregards the challenges it has had to face in the aftermath of this war in terms of refugees and internally displaced persons. it is true that the international community has probably not been as active as it could have been in solving this protracted conflict which is still, as we speak, claiming lives. but two wrongs do not make a right, and when azerbaijan joined the council of europe our hope was that it shared our attachment to human rights and fundamental freedoms. as we see today, this hope has been replaced by, to put it mildly, strong concerns. as a friend of azerbaijan and its people, on a principled position, it is simple and clear: we want azerbaijan to return to its path towards a european future.
mr president, the house may wish to acknowledge that yesterday was quite an incredible milestone in the united kingdom when her majesty the queen became the country’s longest-serving monarch. i hope members – certainly british members and, i would hope, maltese and cypriot members, given her leadership as head of the commonwealth – will join me in generally acknowledging the incredible service this lady has given to the united kingdom. (applause)
mr president, (start of speech inaudible as microphone not switched on) ... the members for this late intervention. there is intense negotiation. but i am going to ask if you would please consider doing a roll-call vote on amendment 1. i want to alert members that this amendment from the ecr group is a very dangerous one. it talks about two states for two peoples. it is effectively ethnic cleansing. i want to remind members that 20% of the citizens of israel are arab israeli citizens. i just want to alert members to this. if we cannot have a roll-call vote, at least members would know. we should not damage the reputation of this parliament, and members should vote against it.
in writing. ‒ investment for jobs and growth should be the preserve of the member states, not the responsibility of the eu. member states are best placed to understand the unique challenges faced by each country. this is another example of subsidiarity being ignored.
in writing. ‒ investment for jobs and growth should be the preserve of the member states, not the responsibility of the eu. member states are best placed to understand the unique challenges faced by each country. this is another example of subsidiarity being ignored.
in writing. ‒ the european structural and investment funds hold inherent potential for organisations in my constituency in northern ireland, many of whom work with disengaged sections of the community, including young people, women and those living with a disability. the merits of these funds toward promoting skills, employment and entrepreneurship in particular have been well publicised. however, it is equally as beneficial that all necessary steps are taken to ensure that the application and claims processes are conducive to maximising the impact that this support can provide to projects in eu regions. in this sense, this report is right to highlight that suspensions in payments must come as a last resort. in northern ireland, delays in payments for claims under the last european social fund programme continue to mar the amicable closure of several transformative skills and training projects carried out in the last programming. this is quite frankly unacceptable and does not inspire confidence for potential applicants. managing authorities should therefore be given clear guidance on auditing procedures to ensure that these delays do not happen in the new programme. in turn, managing authorities must use the flexibility given to them to leverage the greatest benefits possible from the structural funds for northern ireland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the deutsch report, which outlines key steps that are vital to a strong cohesion policy: improving public authorities’ administrative capacity, improving cross—border cooperation and thinking about the post—2020 policy. however, a lot depends on how member states use these funds. in my country, the government tends to blame the eu when there is bad news about the economy. what they don’t mention is that eu cohesion investments helped maintain stability in our regions during the economic crisis, when national public and private investments declined. take the west midlands, where the gbp 640m in erdf and esf funds invested between 2007 and 2013 have been key for some parts of the region, where public sector cuts had a disproportionate and adverse impact, and have helped 12,000 people to get a job. what the government also doesn’t mention is that it caused huge delays in getting the funding agreed, stealing valuable time for local businesses to apply for money. and although 750 000 young people are out of job in the uk, the government chose not to implement the youth guarantee, instead using eu funds for a youth contract that delivered less than 13% of 160 000 promised work placements.
in writing. ‒ while recognising the importance of the gender dimension in job creation, i strongly oppose the idea of job creation being either an eu or government activity. job creation comes from governments supporting business development, innovation and industry development and supporting smes; not from direct governmental interference. i do not therefore condone any increase in interference from the eu in areas such as childcare. in my view, the eu should focus on job creation as an objective; working to foster a more supportive and therefore more beneficial, environment to assist with the achievement of this goal. indeed, despite notable progress in recent decades, women still face significant challenges in the labour market and if one considers the impending skills shortages, particularly in the uk, such challenges have the potential to negatively impact society more broadly. it is important that gender issues are treated seriously in the area of cohesion policy, because this represents a very significant slice of eu expenditure. women are essential to the success of any regional policy. it is for these reasons that, on this occasion, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ in the plenary i, along with my fellow labour meps, voted for this report. i welcome the new investment plan for europe: it complements its structural and cohesion investments. areas which are promising, as pointed out in the report, include the core targets of cohesion investments 2014-2020, which are: energy efficiency, employment and small and medium—sized enterprises, areas which are of importance to the north west of england.
in writing. ‒ overall, i supported this report, which points to the core cohesion investments 2014-2020, which include energy efficiency, employment and the promotion of smes. the long-term, integrated and multilevel governance approach provides essential added value to the implementation of eu measures. this report also highlights the role of the european parliament in scrutinising economic governance procedures relating to cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ while this report is about promoting cohesion in the eu, the constitutional position of scotland makes cohesion very difficult. the people of scotland have clearly expressed at the ballot box a dislike for right-wing austerity politics, yet we have a right-wing austerity—driven uk government. economic, social and territorial cohesion within scotland can only be delivered by scottish independence.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. cohesion policy cannot be considered a mere instrument for other sectoral strategies. on the contrary, its long-term integrated and multilevel governance approach provides essential added value to the implementation and ownership of eu measures that a purely sectoral policy approach cannot deliver.
in writing. ‒ the decision of the british conservatives to abstain on the deutsch report reflects a mixed view of a text that contains both positive and negative elements. we welcomed, for example, the rapporteur’s support for measures to cut red tape, improve esi fund absorption, tackle the payments backlog (some eur 28.4 billion by the end of 2014) and support the vital role of smes in creating jobs and growth. however, key paragraphs lacked clarity on budgetary consequences, suggested new legislative measures and inferred a level of eu involvement in some areas of national competence that uk members were unable to support. in addition, though most british conservatives support the european fund for strategic investment, we do not believe that its main objectives should be economic, social and territorial cohesion. efsi, in our view, should be firmly focused on granting a guarantee to economically viable projects likely to make a return.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which underlines that cohesion policy is the main instrument of the european union aimed at reducing the economic, social and territorial disparities across european regions, boosting their competitiveness, tackling climate change and energy dependence, while at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy goals. it also underlines that even though they have been difficult for some member states and regions to co-finance, cohesion policy investments have cushioned significantly the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis, and have given regions stability by ensuring the flow of funding when national and regional public and private investments have fallen sharply. it further underlines that cohesion policy funding was equivalent to 21% of public investment in the eu as a whole and to 57% in the cohesion countries taken together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. looking forward, the report points to the core targets of cohesion investments 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes – areas where the potential for creating sustainable jobs is indeed promising.
in writing. ‒ in the plenary today i voted for this report. i welcome the new investment plan for europe: it complements its structural and cohesion investments. areas which are promising, as pointed out in the report, include the core targets of cohesion investments 2014-2020, which are: energy efficiency, employment and small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on a new eu investment plan for europe as it will complement structural and cohesion investments.
in writing. ‒ i can welcome a number of aspects of this report of the committee on regional development. it rightly calls for simplified procedures and the removal of red tape, in order to increase accessibility to these funds. it also recognises the important role smes play in creating jobs and growth, highlighting the need to deliver access to finance and also access to support programmes and training, which will promote the development of entrepreneurial skills. finally, i am pleased to see it calling for greater efforts to manage payment backlogs, given the significant impact these delays can have on the ground. however, i maintain concerns about some elements of this report. in particular, i do not fully share its interpretation of the role of the new european fund for strategic investment and i am disappointed to see the report making calls for european commission action in areas outside of eu competence, such as the provision of childcare facilities. for these reasons i was unable to give this report my full support at the vote and i therefore opted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support calls for further eu funding in matters which should be within the remit of individual nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it was a complete and abject failure. far from lauding the success of the year’s communication campaign, nobody in the real world has ever heard of it, nor did it help anyone in genuine need. it was just another propaganda exercise for the eu and a complete waste of taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i will not support calls for further eu funding in matters which, in my opinion, should be within the remit of individual nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non—binding report because the project was a complete failure. far from lauding the success of the year’s communication campaign, nobody in the real world ever heard of it, nor did it help anyone in genuine need. it was just another propaganda exercise for the eu and a complete waste of taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the premise of this report: harnessing the skills and meeting the needs of older persons in our society. we all have a role to play to promote a vision in which people’s experience and potential is not lost as we grow older. in the last parliamentary term, i was delighted that the commissioner for inclusion, marianne thyssen, agreed to lend her official support to my publication signposts to older people in northern ireland. this advice guide covered many of the aspects identified in today’s report, including the need to support older people in maximising entitlements, obtaining help when in ill-health, staying safe, tackling elder abuse and getting involved in their local communities, be it through employment, education or volunteering. the response, i am glad to say, has been overwhelming. raising awareness of services and information available is invaluable. this report specifically highlights the rising scourge of dementia, which affects approximately 19 000 people in my own constituency, particularly older people, and which demands increased support from government and the voluntary sector. it has long been my view that national governments are primarily responsible for leading this fight with direct measures, but raising awareness at all levels is key.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the kukan report because, with the significant demographic changes we are facing the coming 10-20 years, it is high time member states set up a more active ageing culture. the eu should fully support this. in this respect, i believe the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations in 2012 was a crucial initiative. now it is key for member states to support the recruitment of older workers, especially before their statutory retirement age. these people often have invaluable experience and can help coaching new young colleagues. we cannot afford to lose their experience and know-how, especially given the current difficult economic context. i would ask the honourable members to think about their own future. we have to see ageing as an opportunity, not a burden. let us take this message home.
in writing. ‒ alongside my friends in the european parliamentary labour party, i voted in favour, so that we ensure that older people who find themselves unemployed, who experience difficulty re-entering the labour market are not left behind or forgotten, and that we show solidarity between generations. i believe that active ageing policies, should not only address how to ensure the employability of older workers, but should also enhance opportunities for older citizens to have a positive role in society.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because the project was a complete failure. far from lauding the success of the year’s communication campaign, nobody in the real world ever heard of it, nor did it help anyone in genuine need. it was just another propaganda exercise for the eu and a complete waste of taxpayers’ money.
in writing. ‒ the year 2012 was designated as the ‘european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations’. the report concerns the implementation, results, and an assessment of it and solidarity between generations. through their employment protection legislation and systems of wage formation member states should support the recruitment of older workers especially before their statutory retirement age, as unemployment would have further negative effects on their retirement income. in order to guarantee that solidarity between generations is maintained, i voted in favour to ensure that older unemployed generations who find it increasingly difficult to reintegrate in the labour market are not left alone.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which among many good recommendations calls on the commission to study the worrying problem of unemployment among people over the age of 50 and the ever rising level of long-term unemployment, and, in conjunction with the member states, regional and local authorities and social partners, to look into the circumstances and personal situations of older people who are unemployed and to develop effective tools for keeping workers who belong to this vulnerable category in the labour market, offering opportunities for lifelong learning and upgrading of skills, in-work training and accessible and affordable learning programmes and promoting intergenerational training and transfer of knowledge at work for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in order to guarantee that solidarity between generations is maintained. we must ensure that older unemployed generations who find it increasingly difficult to reintegrate in the labour market are not left alone.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as taxpayers’ money was spent on communication relating to the campaign. i am against spending any tax monies on unnecessary projects.
in writing. ‒ in order to guarantee that solidarity between generations is maintained, i – with the european parliamentary labour party – voted in favour to ensure that older unemployed people, who find it increasingly difficult to reintegrate in the labour market, are not left alone. active ageing policies, in my view, should not only consider means of maintaining older workers’ employability, but should also enhance opportunities for older citizens to have a positive role in society.
in writing. ‒ in order to guarantee that solidarity between generations is maintained, i voted in favour of this report to ensure that older unemployed generations who find it increasingly difficult to reintegrate in the labour market are not left alone.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the rejection, when the relevant text was considered (paragraph 63, indent 12), of eu interference in gibraltar. nevertheless, i cannot support any increase in eu funding, and i voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the rejection, when the relevant text was considered (paragraph 63, indent 12), of eu interference in gibraltar. nevertheless, i cannot support any increase in eu funding, and i voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ mr president, in representing northern ireland as an mep, i recognise that we as a region lie on the periphery of europe as a continent. that in itself presents inherent challenges for residents of our province in travelling to other eu countries for a range of purposes, whether it be for business or on holiday. i therefore welcome any debate on how transport links can be created that better connect local citizens and businesses with the rest of europe. however i am not convinced that this report properly brings together outstanding priorities in these areas. the focus on coercing member states to enforced national road charges for vehicles is unwelcome, as are calls for legislation governing professional driver training to be reopened for review and consolidation. on many occasions in this chamber i have fought the corner of hard-pressed hauliers in my constituency and i will not support provision that stands to make their lives harder and place added pressures on testing authorities here.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for more social legislation at eu level and also calls for the unnecessary creation of a new european road transport agency. on top of these concerns, the report needlessly drags gibraltar into the matter. it is only spain’s refusal to accept the cordoba agreement which is preventing citizens flying to and from gibraltar’s airport as regards eu aviation matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is vital we achieve a more extensive, efficient and environmentally-friendly public transport system across the european union for citizens and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ i, and my european parliamentary labour party, colleagues voted for this. this report looks in a detailed way at how we move forward to achieve a more efficient, environmental and extensive public transport system across the eu, that not only meets the needs of citizens but those of businesses as well.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support this report, which looks in detail at how we can achieve a more extensive, efficient and environmentally-friendly public transport system in the eu for citizens and businesses. this report is also strong on improving public transport for disabled people and those with reduced mobility.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text in this report calling for an eu framework for road charging, as i believe that this must remain a national competence. in scotland road transport is vital for the economic and social viability of highland, island and rural communities. i utterly reject the views of urban commentators who regard road transport as an ill which must be eliminated.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, as it looks in detail at the way forward to achieve a more extensive, efficient and environmentally-friendly public transport system across the eu for citizens and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ stresses that the 2030 reduction target for ghg emissions from transport should be set at a level that will allow the achievement of the long-term target of the white paper of an at least 60% reduction of ghg emissions from transport by 2050; calls in this context on the commission to propose a comprehensive strategy for the decarbonisation of transport.
in writing. ‒ i – and my british labour colleagues – will be voting to remove from the resolution on ‘the implementation of the 2011 white book on transport' the reference to the council of ministers being asked to resolve the dispute between the uk and spain with respect to gibraltar airport that is preventing the implementation of a number of eu directives regarding air transport. first, there is no dispute. this issue was resolved with the cordoba agreement, when there was a comprehensive settlement of a number of outstanding issues regarding gibraltar. the uk and gibraltar fully implemented their side of the agreement while the incoming conservative government in madrid subsequently reneged on what had been agreed by the previous socialist government. second, there should be no attempt now or in the future to resolve any outstanding issues in gibraltar in the absence of representatives of the government of gibraltar. the european institutions are right to be concerned at the delays to implement sound and sensible regulations regarding air transport and passengers' rights, but the pressure should be firmly applied to those responsible for the current impasse, which is solely the current conservative government in madrid.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote for this report, which looks in detail at the way forward to achieving a more extensive, efficient and environmentally-friendly public transport system across the european union for citizens and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as it is full of contradictions and is unfounded. it calls for the commission to promote the use of cable cars as an affordable means of transport. past examples of this such as the thames cable car prove this to be incorrect. it also calls for a 0.0 driving alcohol limit as a mandatory. i do not recognise the eu to have the power to dictate this to the uk. i also worry that it calls for a major review of previous legislations that the uk has an opt-out of, i do not wish to see us lose this opt-out clause.
in writing. ‒ this report looks in detail at the way forward to achieve a more efficient, environmental and extensive public transport system across the eu, for citizens as well as for businesses. this is why i voted for the report in plenary today.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote for this report which looks in detail at the way forward to achieve a more extensive, efficient and environmentally-friendly public transport system across the european union for citizens and businesses alike.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote for this report which looks in detail at the ways to achieve a more extensive, efficient and environmentally-friendly public transport system across the european union for citizens and businesses alike. this includes an important recognition that cities that have developed an integrated transport plan should be allocated eu structural funds to aid in the realisation of more forward looking transportation integration. this report also recognises the importance of incorporating the needs of disabled people and those with reduced mobility, to ensure that public transport can meet the needs of those it is intended to serve. furthermore, the role of the trade union movement in the development of public transportation plans was also recognised, this preserves the dignity of those who serve the public by staffing our networks.
in writing. ‒ this report, however well-intentioned, still covers matters which are best left to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non—legislative and non—binding report as it calls for gender targets. you don’t fight discrimination with discrimination. it calls for ‘gender equality plans’ to be a pre-condition to accessing public funding in research, science and academia. rather than innovations and scientific breakthroughs being the important reasons for government support, they want to block help for projects if there aren’t enough men or women on the team.
in writing. ‒ despite the best intentions of this report, it covers matters which, in my opinion, should be decided individually by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non—binding report as it calls for gender targets - you don’t fight discrimination with more discrimination. it calls for ‘gender equality plans’ to be a pre—condition to accessing public funding in research, science and academia. rather than innovations and scientific breakthroughs being the important reason for government support, they want to block help for projects if there aren’t enough men or women on the team.
in writing. ‒ while nearly 60% of graduate students in the eu are women, they only account for 1 fifth of senior academics. these numbers demonstrate the loss of talent that happens along the way, and urgently needs to be reversed. that's why i support the voezemberg report and why i call for: - more measures to help women reconcile work and family life, like child care parental leave, flexible working. - institutional changes, like the creation of online tools for sharing best practice and increased participation of women in decision-making bodies. - and the application of gender budgeting to all programmes related to science, research and academia. sharing knowledge, best practices and resources amongst institutions and member states in the eu will be vital to eliminate gender biases at all stages of recruitment, training and appraisals, and ensure that women and men can balance their work and family lives. only that way will we be able to tap the full potential of our talent, instead of just half.
in writing. – the uk is fast approaching a major skills shortage – by 2022 we shall need an estimated 1.82 million new engineering, science and technology professionals in order to keep up with the world's technology powerhouses of the us, south korea and japan and meet consumer demands. demands for more intelligent and faster mobile technology, the demand for communications technology 24/7, the need for faster travel and the increasing demand for energy all means that we need more men and women to study science at school and university and become scientists. this report deals with a number of the big challenges prohibiting women from entering and reaching senior positions in stem professions and the uk delegation is pleased to able to support the overall aims this report. we have a number of concerns regarding eu interference in paternity leave, eu common guidelines for universities, gender-balanced budgeting for universities and targets and quotas for women in research bodies and boards. we have voted against these elements and have supported the report overall.
in writing. ‒ i, and labour meps, voted for this report for a simple reason: women and girls have a right to an education. this report demonstrates that there a long way to go on the road to ending gender-related barriers in education, particularly with regards to science and higher education. it makes a series of recommendations which will ensure that women are able to play their full role in science, research and higher education, these are recommendations that are very important. we face a shortfall in skills, especially in science, technology, engineering and mathematics; something we can avoid if we act now and give women and girls more freedom to pursue their careers.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights how far we still have to go to smash the glass ceilings in science and academia, and it makes a number of very important recommendations which will ensure women are able to play their full role in science, research and higher education. particularly in stem fields, we face a projected—skills shortfall which will only be averted if we act now to empower more women pursuing their careers. we must ensure that women and men are able to balance their work and family lives and that gender biases are eliminated at all stages of recruitment, training and appraisals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for gender targets – you don’t fight discrimination with more discrimination. it calls for ‘gender equality plans’ to be a pre—condition to accessing public funding in research, science and academia. rather than innovations and scientific breakthroughs being the important reason for government support, they want to block help for projects if there aren’t enough men or women on the team.
in writing. ‒ this report rightly notes the gender inequality in the world of science and academia. the scottish parliament called in 2009 for the scottish government to include in its science strategy specific action to improve the participation and employment of women in the science sector. work has been done to address this issue and i commend it to this house.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it makes a number of very important recommendations which will ensure that women are able to play their full role in science, research and higher education. we must ensure that women and men are able to balance their work and family lives and that gender biases are eliminated at all stages of recruitment, training and appraisals. this is also an area where cooperation at the european level is vital to share knowledge, best practices and resources amongst institutions and member states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which regrets that unequal access for women to research positions, funding and publishing still persists, including a unadjusted gender pay gap in the area of science and academia, despite legal provisions on equal treatment and non-discrimination on the labour market, including provisions on equal pay, being in place in the eu and member states.
in writing. ‒ the low presence of women in the highest academic and decision-making positions in scientific institutions and universities has to change. i voted for this report because it calls for a strategy to tackle the barriers and stereotypes faced by professional women in science and academia and aims to break the glass ceiling in order to make science inclusive for women.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights how far we still have to go to smash the glass ceilings in science and academia. it makes a number of very important recommendations which will ensure that women are able to play their full role in science, research and higher education. particularly in stem fields, we face a projected skills shortfall which will only be averted if we act now to empower more women pursuing their careers. we must ensure that women and men are able to balance their work and family lives and that gender biases are eliminated at all stages of recruitment, training and appraisals. this is also an area where cooperation at the european level is vital to share knowledge, best practices and resources amongst institutions and member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report, as it calls for gender targets. you do not fight discrimination with more discrimination. it calls for ‘gender equality plans’ to be a pre-condition for access to public funding in research, science and academia. rather than making innovations and scientific breakthroughs the important reasons for government support, they want to block help for projects if there are not enough men or women on the team.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, i am against any positive discrimination, as it undermines what is sets out to achieve. this report also calls on the commission to do various things which could equate to quotas, i am against quotas. while i support the call for more women in the sciences, i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that every girl and woman has the right to an education. this report highlights how far we still have to go to end gender-related barriers in science and academia. it makes a number of very important recommendations which will ensure that women are able to play their full role in science, research and higher education. we are facing a skills shortfall, especially in science, technology, engineering and mathematics; something we can avoid if we act now and give women more freedom to pursue their careers.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights how far we still have to go to smash the glass ceilings in science and academia. it makes a number of very important recommendations which will ensure that women are able to play their full role in science, research and higher education. particularly in stem fields, we face a projected skills shortfall which will only be averted if we act now to empower more women pursuing their careers. we must ensure that women and men are able to balance their work and family lives and that gender biases are eliminated at all stages of recruitment, training and appraisals. this is also an area where cooperation at the european level is vital to share knowledge, best practices and resources amongst institutions and member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights how far we still have to go to break through the glass ceilings in science and academia. it makes a number of very important recommendations which will ensure that women are able to play their full role in science, research and higher education. particularly in stem fields, we face a projected skills shortfall which will only be averted if we act now to empower more women to pursue their careers without disadvantage. we must ensure that women and men are able to balance their work and family lives and that gender biases are eliminated at all stages of recruitment, training and appraisals. this is also an area where cooperation at the european level is vital to share knowledge, best practices and resources amongst institutions and member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union should not be involved with the education systems of member states. interference with sex and relationship education should also not be the role of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for gender quotas on education bodies – you don’t fight discrimination with more discrimination. it called for compulsory sex and relationship classes and for the eu commission to conduct propaganda campaigns in our schools. the eu commission has no right to interfere with education, both in principle as it is an unelected and unaccountable body, but also in practice as it is not granted the competence in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ the european union should not be interfering with the education systems of member states. due to the cultural differences between member states, and as matter of faith, i believe that sex and relationship education should also not be the role of the european union. such an approach allows for political correctness to take hold, on such a sensitive subject. hence, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ it will come as no huge shock to those in the chamber that my comments on this report are based around the principle of subsidiarity. it is my view that the european parliament should have no say on how the uk or any other country in europe educates its young people or indeed upholds equality in the classroom. this parliament has for many years endured efforts to place more women on business boards or other aspects of employment and civil society without care for the principle of merit. yes, we need more women in decision-making roles, however this should come as a consequence of empowering girls and women through personal development training and traditional means of education, not by simply placing them in spheres of authority to top up statistics. we must of course ensure that all children have equality opportunities and warrant equal treatment in the classroom, however whether this needs to come in the form of training for teachers and specific slots in school curricula is up for debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe it strays into areas that are not within the eu’s competence, but rather stray within the competence of member states. i am a committed advocate of universal education, but the commission does not have power, and should never have the power, to prescribe the contents of textbooks in the uk’s curriculum. this report does not respect the principle of subsidiarity and therefore i cannot support it.
in writing. ‒ some may be surprised to learn that many of the first it programmers during the early 20th century were female. as were trailblazers in medicine and many other fields. yet female role models are easily forgotten, and as a result girls remain severely underrepresented in science, maths and technology. not because of a lack of talent. because of a lack of the right tools and context. this is not just these girls' loss. it is ours. that is why i supported the rodrigues report and call on the commission to: - widen participation of women in stem- promote equal representation among education leaders and managers - ask member states to provide our youngsters gender-sensitive sex and relationships education appropriate for their age of course all of this will require governments to reverse austerity policies that have meant severe cuts for the education budget. i ask them to listen to the words of malala yousufzai, nobel peace prize winner and a student in my region of the west midlands, who calls on leaders to finally get their priorities straight ... and invest in education.
in writing. – the uk delegation expects nothing less than full and equal opportunity for both girls and boys to education in school. girls and boys should have equal access to good primary and secondary school teachers and opportunities to study a variety of subjects regardless of sex. we recognise that bullying and homophobia are problems facing young people at school, and national governments must work with schools and teachers to stop all forms of bullying, harassment and violence at school and we have supported those relevant paragraphs. the uk delegation is however disappointed that this report goes far beyond the remit and responsibilities of and the european parliament, particularly; eu interference in teacher training, educational pedagogy, how schools are funded, the school curricula and sex education and "sexist distortions" in textbooks and teaching materials. the uk delegation is also concerned that this report calls for the eu to harmonise national qualification rules for professionals coming from outside of the eu and calls on member states to provide free education services to migrant women; whilst are important issues they are not within the legal competencies of the eu. for these reasons the uk delegation was unable to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i, and labour meps, voted for this report for a simple reason: women and girls have a right to an education. this report makes it clear that education, as a major aspect of socialisation, radically affects our perception of women and girls. not only do schools play a part in the shaping of our perception of gender, but also contribute massively to attitudes, behaviour, choices and ambitions. if we are to empower girls to achieve their true potential, we must create the appropriate learning environments where attitudes towards gender are firmly challenged – from stereotypes to discrimination. all children must be able to thrive. the need to tackle these inequalities is an urgent one. we must present practical solutions to deal with the very real problems women and girls are facing.
in writing. ‒ education is a transformative tool for challenging gender stereotypes, empowering women and girls and is a driver of the economy. schools are fundamental in shaping attitudes, choices and ambitions. we need to create learning environments where gender stereotypes are challenged, where no child is discriminated against, and where all children can thrive. women are still under-represented in senior leadership positions whilst being over-represented in early years and primary education. as a result, girls often lack role models, particularly in science and technology subjects. i voted for this report because it rightly identifies the urgent need to tackle these inequalities and presents practical solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for gender quotas on education bodies – you don’t fight discrimination with more discrimination. it called for compulsory sex and relationship classes and for the eu commission to conduct propaganda campaigns in our schools. the eu commission has no right to interfere with education – both in principle, as it is an unelected and unaccountable body, and in practice, as it is not granted the competence in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ this report correctly notes the importance of state-funded public education in the empowerment of girls and young women. the scottish government is committed to free education at primary, secondary and tertiary levels and my part will continue to oppose unionist efforts to reduce state funding.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it sends a very clear message that education will play a critical role in making gender equality a reality. schools are fundamental in shaping attitudes, choices and ambitions. if we are to empower girls to achieve their true potential, we must create learning environments where gender stereotypes are challenged, where no child is discriminated against, and where all children can thrive.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which calls on the commission and the member states to implement and improve measures to apply gender equality at all levels of the education system, and to fully integrate improving awareness of gender issues into teacher training, but also for all categories of school professionals, e.g. school doctors, nurses, psychologists, social workers and pedagogues, as well as to ensure the creation of mechanisms throughout the education system to facilitate the promotion, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of gender equality in educational institutions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this incredibly important report as a step towards abolishing gender stereotypes and achieving gender equality. it focuses on using the educational system, including teacher training, to advocate respect, equality and self-confidence to young girls so that they can feel empowered. this in turn helps to bridge the barriers faced in their later, professional lives and achieve the bigger picture of gender equality.
in writing. ‒ this report sends a very clear message that education will play a critical role in making gender equality a reality. schools are fundamental in shaping attitudes, choices and ambitions. if we are to empower girls to achieve their true potential, we must create learning environments where gender stereotypes are challenged, where no child is discriminated against, and where all children can thrive. women are still under-represented in senior leadership and decision making positions whilst being over-represented in early years and primary education. as a result, girls often lack role models, particularly in science and technology subjects. i voted for this report because it rightly identifies the urgent need to tackle these inequalities and presents practical solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for gender quotas on education bodies – you don’t fight discrimination with more discrimination. it called for compulsory sex and relationship classes and for the eu commission to conduct propaganda campaigns in our schools. the eu commission has no right to interfere with education, both in principle as it is an unelected and unaccountable body, but also in practice as it is not granted the competence in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as the eu has no place or mandate to get involved in the uk education system. the eu also has no role or mandate to get involved in sex and relationship education in schools in the uk.
in writing. ‒ as i stated in my previous explanation, i voted for this report for the same reason: women and girls have a right to an education. and this report makes it clear that education, as a major aspect of socialisation, radically affects our perception of women and girls. not only do schools shape our perception of other genders, but also contribute massively to attitudes, choices and ambitions. if we are to empower girls to achieve their true potential, we must create the appropriate learning environments where our current attitudes towards gender is challenged; from stereotypes to discrimination. all children must be able to thrive. there is an urgent need to tackle these inequalities and present practical solutions to very real problems girls are facing.
in writing. ‒ this report sends a very clear message that education will play a critical role in making gender equality a reality. schools are fundamental in shaping attitudes, choices and ambitions. if we are to empower girls to achieve their true potential, we must create learning environments where gender stereotypes are challenged, where no child is discriminated against, and where all children can thrive. women are still underrepresented in senior leadership and decision making positions whilst being overrepresented in early years and primary education. as a result, girls often lack role models, particularly in science and technology subjects. i voted for this report because it rightly identifies the urgent need to tackle these inequalities and presents practical solutions.
in writing. ‒ this report sends a very clear message that education will play a critical role in making gender equality a reality. learning environments are fundamental in shaping attitudes, choices and ambitions. if we are to empower girls to achieve their true potential, we must create learning environments where gender stereotypes are challenged, where no child is discriminated against, and where all children can thrive. women are still under—represented in senior leadership and decision making positions whilst being overrepresented in early years and primary education. as a result, girls often lack role models, particularly in science and technology subjects. i voted for this report because it rightly identifies the urgent need to tackle these inequalities and presents practical solutions. in particular i welcomed the adoption of an amendment on the need to promote sexual and relationship education that i tabled in cult committee in my role as shadow rapporteur for the opinion.
in writing. ‒ this report heavily criticises eea states for not implementing enough single market legislation. it also supports the eu’s rejection of a request by switzerland to renegotiate their free movement of people agreement. i cannot support such a report.
in writing. ‒ this report heavily criticises eea states for not implementing enough single market legislation. it also supports the eu’s rejection of a request by switzerland to renegotiate their free movement of people agreement. accordingly, i cannot support such a report and, as such, voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, along with my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party, because it addresses the obstacles of that iceland, norway, liechtenstein and switzerland face in regard to the full implementation of the internal market and its governing rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which reiterates that the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms and a pillar of the single market and that it always has been an inseparable part of and precondition for the bilateral approach between the eu and switzerland; therefore fully supports the eu’s rejection of july 2014 of the swiss authorities’ request to renegotiate the fmpa with a view to introducing a quota or a national preference system; notes with concern reports concerning the application by some firms and cantons of a national preference system, and points out that such a practice is at odds with the agreement on freedom of movement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report for two reasons. the first is because i believe that the eu should respect the democratic will of the swiss people to renegotiate the free movement of persons agreement (fmpa) with the eu and regain control of their own borders. the second reason is because i do not agree that the eu should criticise eea states for not transposing all single market legislation into their own national legislation. the eu should respect the will of eea states when certain aspects of single market legislation are not desired.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it heavily criticizes eea states for not implementing single market legislation. it also supports the eu’s rejection of the swiss authorities’ request to renegotiate the free movement of peoples agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today because it addresses the obstacles of that iceland, norway, liechtenstein and switzerland have regarding the full implementation of the internal market and its rules.
mr president, the commission’s proposal for refugee quotas is not sustainable on either moral or practical grounds. the moral objection is that the people already in the eu are not those most in need. if we were interested in helping syrian refugees rather than in trying to prop up schengen, we would be taking people directly from the camps. when we take people who have already made the journey to relatively safe eu countries, we in effect reward the people traffickers. in fact, we contract out our immigration policy to them. but there is also a very practical objection, and it is this: you cannot have quotas and, at the same time, the principle of free movement of people. sooner or later, those refugees will get travel documents and the two things are incompatible in the long run. schengen, like the euro, was a fair—weather system. neither has survived its first crisis. they worked perfectly well when the sun was shining. they have crumbled beneath the storms. the eu’s monumental ambitions lie shattered: two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert.
mr president, no-one – most of all myself – could fail to be moved by a young child dead on a turkish beach. members of this house have been tripping over themselves this week with hand-wringing public compassion, but we have to find practical solutions to this problem. by not trying to a halt migration, most of which is economic, we will simply cause more migration and yet more debt. why are the gulf states not paying for well-run camps for their fellow muslims on the turkish border with syria, where they could go back to their homes once this present emergency has lapsed? this is forcing people into rubber boats bouncing around in the mediterranean. it is absolutely atrocious. i care about the human rights of these migrants very much, but i also care about the human rights of my fellow citizens to jobs. we must deal with this and get the middle east to pay for itself.
mr president, every human being has the right to life, food, clothing and shelter. every human being has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the confines of their own state. every human, when there are just reasons in favour, should be allowed to migrate and settle in another country. the fact they are citizens of a particular state does not deprive them of membership of the human family. these principles are as much a part of those like me, who seek to address the complex issues of immigration, asylum and economic migrants by controlled and managed migration, as they are for those who vote for motions in this parliament today that demand uncontrolled immigration with quotas decided by a select few. the difference is that we seek to find solutions that consider the impact on existing citizens, resources and international problems, rather than throwing abusive and corrosive language, such as ‘racist’, ‘xenophobe’ or ‘extremist’ at those whose views differ to our own.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution as it calls for the european union to step up its role in conflict resolution and calls for an eu conference to specifically address this issue. i did not agree with the welcoming of operation support provided by frontex, however, on the whole the report was positive.
in writing. ‒ i oppose an eu common asylum policy. the situation with syria is particularly complex, but is not helped by the european union’s naïve and misguided approach. i had no option but to vote against this resolution, which will in my view prove to be counterproductive.
in writing. ‒ i find the concept of a common eu asylum policy unpalatable. asylum must remain a matter wholly to be decided by member states. hence, i voted against this resolution as a matter of principle.
in writing. ‒ while these temporary relocation plans take cognisance of the ongoing migrant crisis in southern europe, there can be no suggestion that they represent a template for solving the root causes of the mass build-up of refugees at eu borders. while all developed countries have a moral duty to do their fair share to alleviate the plight of those coming to europe in pursuit of a chance to live in relative safety, i do not believe a common eu asylum system is required to remind national leaders of the humanitarian onus on them to act. in opting out of this relocation mechanism, the uk prime minister has since committed to resettling 20,000 syrian refugees by 2020. the principle of free movement has led to a situation where economic migrants and refugees are often wrongly considered in the same terms. however, this should be no excuse for governments failing to extend a helping hand and safe haven to those in desperate need on the shores of turkey and greece. most importantly of all is that we in europe give all necessary focus to supporting peace and stability in the regions from where many of the refugees have been forced to leave in search of a better life for their families.
in writing. ‒ i believe in showing solidarity with those facing a crisis. we must show more solidarity between us europeans who face crisis, and to people across the rest of the world facing crises. i along with my colleagues in the s&d group, voted for a resolution that allowed for the most effective and humane way of dealing with the migration and refugee crisis currently facing europe. i hope that by voting this way the crisis will be one step closer to being solved.
in writing. ‒ the shocking image of aylan lying on a beach has brought home the cost of this human tragedy. earlier this year, i visited refugee camps in iraq, jordan and lebanon and witnessed the unimaginable suffering of refugees first hand. i met a palestinian family who have struggled for three generations in a refugee camp. it was a heart-breaking indictment of our failure. refugees are leaving their homes, because they are no longer safe. they are risking life and limb in order to find safe land. we must tackle human traffickers who exploit human misery and we can only do so by creating safe legal channels for refugees. it is wrong that the top 5 countries welcoming refugees are developing countries. it is wrong that the uk offers to take twelve refugees per day whilst germany takes one thousand. we can only deal with the scale of this crisis by working globally in solidarity. this unfolding human catastrophe tests our very humanity and we must rise up to that challenge.
in writing. ‒ we need action for the establishment of humanitarian corridors throughout the countries of transit for refugees (in both the mediterranean and the western balkans), with the aim of providing humanitarian aid and ensuring that the refugees’ most basic needs are covered and their human rights respected. we stress that the humanitarian response to the refugee crisis should be part of a longer-term plan that includes humanitarian aid support for the countries neighbouring the refugees’ countries of origin, strengthens their early recovery and protection capacities, reinforces the role of un-related agencies and improves the political, social, human rights and economic situation in developing countries of origin and transition.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a resolution that allowed for the most effective and ethical way of dealing with the migration and refugee crisis currently facing europe. i hope that by voting this way the crisis will be one step closer to being solved.
in writing. ‒ with the refugee crisis in the mediterranean at the forefront of our thoughts it was welcome to vote for a report that begins to look at how we can find a european solution to this issue. balancing rights and responsibilities is never easy, but this report makes some moves towards this. by taking into account preferences and consent, as well as preserving family life in the allocation of refugees, we can do our utmost both the lives and the dignity of those in such dire need. this aids not only italy and greece but also europe more broadly, by ensuring no state stands alone when dealing with this issue. inaction in such times is not an act of courage but, an act of betrayal. europe once again has the chance to lead on a matter of great humanitarian need.
mr president, all of us, being human, tend to over—estimate our centrality to events. just as we insist on seeing the migration crisis as being our responsibility, rather than that of assad or islamic state, so we tend to assume that the middle eastern crisis is somehow for us to solve. the reality is that our ability to exert a positive influence is limited. it is not zero, but it is limited. it is up to the peoples of the region to come to their own deal, and actually they are inching towards a deal. one of the bits of the deal which they do seem to be agreeing on is that there will be some land swaps, some different border. that is why i think it is a mistake for the european union, in this report, to come blundering through and assume the 1967 border as the final outcome, because that is the very kind of thing that the negotiations are there to determine. this is not designed to bring the two sides closer together. it is not just about making ourselves feel better. it is not always about us.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it reiterates the eu’s strong support for the two-state solution based on 1967 borders, calls for structured dialogue to this end, calls for the eu to enhance its role in the region, calls for an end to the blockade of the gaza strip and its immediate reconstruction.
in writing. ‒ the european union should not be involving itself as a major player in international foreign affairs. it has the potential to be counterproductive, especially given some of the language which has been used in this chamber concerning sensitive matters in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s should stop attempting to become a major player in international foreign affairs, as it has the potential to be both repetitive and sometimes counterproductive, as contradictions with the opinions of individual members states, have the potential to further complicate matters. i voted against this resolution for this very reason, as well as my concerns over the bias and obvious lack of neutrality over the tragic israel/palestine issue, in particular.
in writing. ‒ i along with my fellow labour meps voted in favour of this resolution. the resolution has called for a fresh eu approach that genuinely serves the interests of peace and security of the palestinian and israeli people alike. it is time for the eu to stop hiding behind the leadership of the usa on this matter, which has demonstrated a lack of resolve to enable a credible negotiation process based on equality of the parties and respect for international law. the resolution urges the eu to fulfil its responsibilities as an influential player and to take a bold and comprehensive peace initiative for the region, a position i support. it is unusual that meps speak with much unity, but i was pleased to see this resolution pass with a significant majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it calls for the resumption of credible peace efforts between israelis and palestinians without delay. preserving the viability of the two-state solution must be an immediate priority for the eu and the international community and we have to use all our diplomatic and economic tools to start this peace process in order find a just solution to this dispute.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which reiterates its strong support for the two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, with the state of israel within secure and recognised borders and an independent, sovereign, contiguous and viable state of palestine living side-by-side in peace and security and mutual recognition along the 1967 borders, with mutually agreed land swaps, and jerusalem as capital of both states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to reiterate the call for the resumption of negotiations towards a two-state solution, and for robust eu action on the subject. the council and vp/hr must clarify how they intend to proceed with dialogue with israel while settlement expansion and demolitions continue across the west bank. it is also important to highlight the work of civil society organisations and individuals on both sides who work relentlessly to create people-to-people dialogue, understanding, tolerance and peace. such grassroots work strengthens democratic institutions and promotes human rights and the rule of law on both sides, and is crucial to active sustainable peace-making.
mr president, the truth is that belarus has decided to go in a different direction. as in ukraine, as in russia, there is – if i may borrow 19th century terminology – an internal dispute between slavophiles and westernisers and the westernisers are not in the ascendancy. belarus is a sovereign country and, sadly, it has made a decision to go in the direction of autocracy and central control, rather than of freedom and personal autonomy, but once again we should accept the limits of our ability to influence things. beyond holding up a better model there is not really very much we can do.
in writing. ‒ this resolution was not the subject of a roll-call vote, but i believe that my constituents have a right to know how i voted. in this case, i abstained on the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution as the eu’s recent record on relations with russia, is, to say the least, somewhat strained. with belarus being so politically close to russia, the eu should be mindful of the need for real diplomacy, especially during such worrying times.
in writing. ‒ i alongside my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of this resolution. the release of political prisoners in belarus is an important step forward. it is critically important that opposition parties are given equal access to media outlets in the run up to the presidential election in october of this year. it is vital that eu continues in its strategy of critical engagement with belarus, but that the eu must not contribute by way of its actions worsen the situation of the opposition and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i welcome belarus’s cooperation with the european union and other relevant parties in finding a solution to the conflict in eastern ukraine, including hosting negotiations on ceasefire agreements.
in writing. ‒ i had to vote against this resolution; in particular, paragraph 50 supports the free movement of workers – a principle which has been disastrous for the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ as someone who is, in principle, opposed to the free movement of eu citizens, and with particular regard to paragraph 50, which supports the free movement of workers, i voted against this report. the oversupply of unskilled workers to the uk labour market, makes it increasingly difficult for british citizens seeking employment.
in writing. ‒ i along with my fellow labour meps voted in favour of this report. the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation. i believe that social enterprises must play a key role in achieving these objectives and offer innovative solutions to boost social cohesion, inclusion and job creation. furthermore, when it comes to achieving the goals of the europe 2020 strategy, their activities should be politically and financially supported. and that is why i voted in favour of this report and for this reason i join my fellow members in calling on the commission to propose a legal framework for social economy enterprises by means of a european statute for cooperative societies, associations, foundations and mutual societies.
in writing. ‒ there are 2 million social economy enterprises representing 10% of eu undertakings. their main purpose is to achieve social objectives, such as providing jobs for vulnerable people or services with a high social impact, rather than creating profit for shareholders. i supported the report, as it he calls for a better acknowledgement of social economy enterprises and to propose a legal framework for social economy enterprises by means of a european statute for cooperative societies, associations, foundations and mutual societies.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report but note that the social and solidarity-based economy cannot replace the welfare state and public services.
in writing. ‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well—being and especially job creation. labour meps believe that the social economy enterprises must play a key role in achieving these objectives, offering innovative solutions to boost social cohesion and inclusion and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should be meddling with uk employment. there are also mentions of protecting free movement of people, which i do not support.
in writing. ‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation. i believe that social enterprises must play a key role in achieving these objectives and offer innovative solutions to boost social cohesion, inclusion and job creation. furthermore, when it comes to achieving the goals of the europe 2020 strategy, their activities should be politically and financially supported. and that is why i voted in favour of this report and for this reason i join my fellow members in calling on the commission to propose a legal framework for social economy enterprises by means of a european statute for cooperative societies, associations, foundations and mutual societies.
in writing. ‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation. eplp believes that the social economy enterprises must play a key role in achieving these objectives offering innovative solutions to boost social cohesion and inclusion and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation. i believe that social economy enterprises must play a key role in achieving these objectives, by offering innovative solutions to boost social cohesion, to improve the inclusion of citizens in the work market and job creation. i therefore commend this report on its acknowledgement of these issues. taking into account the role of the social economy when the europe 2020 strategy is revised is a crucial step towards recognising the social economy´s role and improving our economy as a whole. by using social enterprises to provide work with dignity we can improve by our common endeavour not only the quantity of jobs available, but also the quality of people’s lives.
in writing. ‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation. i believe that the social economy enterprises must play a key role in achieving these objectives offering innovative solutions to boost social cohesion and inclusion and job creation offering a sustainable and hopeful future for some of the poorest communities. therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the measures contained in this report will have the desired effect; furthermore, it maintains the fiction of a ‘european labour market’, despite the individual needs of 28 diverse nations.
in writing. ‒ the european parliamentary labour party voted in favour of this report. we voted for a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century that will foster continuous education and training, especially for the most vulnerable groups in our society. this is will have a particularly important impact in the north west, and in order to guarantee this progress we called on the eu to invest in the north west region’s talents, skills and abilities to combat unemployment and provide wider access to high-quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it stresses that for achieving a competitive labour market, reforms are needed in order to increase labour market and personal career flexibility, better matching of skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education systems and labour markets.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report which is deeply concerned about the levels of youth unemployment in europe and underlines in this regard the importance of dual education such as vocational training and apprenticeships in matching the skills of young people with the demands of the labour market. it calls therefore for a european benchmark on dual education which will highlight the correlation between dual education tracks and youth employment. data for such a benchmark could be collected yearly through the labour force survey and should, as a minimum, measure the amount or percentage of time spent in a company (apprenticeship) during education and the number of months after graduation before employment.
in writing. ‒ the issue of skills mismatches should not hide the real problems of the labour markets: the need to promote the creation of quality jobs, to fight precarious employment and social inequalities and achieve a labour market based on free movement of citizens and workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work.
in writing. ‒ today i voted for a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century which will foster continuous education and training, especially for the most vulnerable groups. this is particularly important in the west midlands as higher skilled employment is expected to rise, and in order to guarantee this progress we called on the eu to invest in the region’s talents, skills and abilities to combat unemployment and provide wider access to high-quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the issue of the skills mismatches should not hide the real problems of the labour markets, the need to promote the creation of quality jobs, to fight precarious employment and social inequalities and achieve a labour market based on the free movement of citizens and workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. however the issue of the skills mismatches should not hide the real problems of the labour markets. in particular the need to promote the creation of quality jobs, to fight precarious employment and social inequalities and achieve a labour market based on the free movement of citizens and workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work. without these any attempt to improve our labour market is doomed to exacerbate rather than solve existing problems within the common work market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as a whole, noting that paragraphs 9 and 39 in particular support harmonisation and paragraph 39 relates to the common asylum policy. however, at least there is some recognition of the need to avoid ‘gold-plating’ of eu legislation and the problems caused by eu legislation to smes.
in writing. ‒ despite some of the language raised in this report, such as concerns over the regulatory burden facing smes, which i agree with, i am, in principle, opposed to any legislative intervention by the eu, and accordingly voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given that i share the rapporteur’s concern about the effects of austerity measures on the capacity of member states’ administration and judiciary to assume their responsibility to implement eu law correctly.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my colleagues in the s&d group, voted in favour of this report. the report expresses concern about the effects of austerity measures on the capacity of member states’ administration and judiciary to assume their responsibility to implement eu law correctly. it points out that some policies are imposed on member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it is a technical report produced annually assessing the transposition and effective application of eu law in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and note the commission’s use of the term ‘gold-plating’, which refers to obligations that go beyond eu requirements, that is, an excess of norms, guidelines and procedures accumulated at national, regional and local levels interfering with the expected policy goals; calls on the commission to clearly define the term; stresses that such a definition must make it clear that member states have the right to set stricter standards where necessary, while taking into account the fact that better harmonisation in the implementation of eu environmental law is important for the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which expresses concern about the effects of austerity measures on the capacity of member states’ administration and judiciary to assume their responsibility to implement eu law correctly and points out that some policies are imposed on member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this initiative report; it gives a good overview of what was included in the commission’s 30th and 31st annual reports on monitoring the application of eu law from 2012 to 2013.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.– mr president, i am rising under this urgent procedure in accordance with rule 154 and also, as you said, in my capacity as chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). it is very rare for parliament to use this procedure on such an important matter, which needs proper consideration in the house, and the first point i want to make to colleagues who have not read this, or who will read it soon, is that we are not giving up our legislative prerogatives for the future on such important matters. i know the president agrees with this. but following the council meeting of monday and the lack of consensus and urgency in reaching majority agreement on an organised and compassionate response to the refugee crisis here in the european union, it is necessary that we respond and that we have our view and that people see parliament doing its job. in particular, the failure to reach an agreement on the 120 000 relocation mechanism to assist with the refugee crisis in italy, greece and hungary will be seen to be one of the major omissions of the council conclusions of monday. it is clearly vital that parliament speak on this issue directly and immediately. we can do this by agreeing now to approve this urgent procedure and we will do so tomorrow in our vote – i hope – by majority, in expressing european solidarity on the refugee crisis, which, i believe, the majority in this house want to see. i urge you to vote for this urgent procedure. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the eu is made up of 28 countries, not just one or two. eu actions and decisions should therefore be taken in a spirit of consultation, not unilaterally declared by one or two leaders who then expect everyone else to follow. those member states who believe there is more than one solution are currently accused of being less european than others. it is simply not fair. by imposing emergency relocation schemes on countries that are – for many reasons – opposed, we are storing up trouble for any future proposals which offer the best long-term solutions. as first vice-president timmermans just said, no finger-pointing, but the reprimands and the ad hoc and rash decision-making that we are seeing are causing us to lose focus on strengthening our cooperation and vital actions to tackle the roots of the crisis. much of the commission’s proposal is correct: improving reception centres, speeding up processing and returns, tackling human trafficking, and looking at how europe can be a force for good in assisting those countries where 97% of the refugees are located. countries that disagree or cannot accept a quota system should be asked what other contributions they could make to help lessen the pressure. but i believe that resettling the most vulnerable refugees straight from the camps in their home regions is the most responsible thing all the member states can do. so when the council meets next week i hope we will see less finger-pointing and more of a willingness to act together in the long-term interests of all european countries, and, especially those who are truly eligible for refugee status.
madam president, as a british mep, i – also on behalf of my country – take real exception to the insults being flung in parliament this afternoon and also to being told what to do with reference to this migrant crisis – not a refugee crisis. not only is germany the source of the problem, with its siren-call to anyone and everyone coming to europe, but now germany seeks to offload the consequences of such an ill—judged, illiterate and incoherent policy by forcing member states to take migrants, bear the costs involved and, fundamentally, dig germany out of a self-created financial, social, humanitarian and political debacle. not content with inflicting the migrant chaos on its own – in some cases, beleaguered – citizens, germany is using bully-boy tactics to force this crisis on to its neighbours. german domination might well mean that when ms merkel says jump, we all ask ‘how high?’, but i – on behalf of the united kingdom and britain – do not agree. note that germany has already made veiled threats about cutting finance to eu countries which have rejected these demands. it is threatening financial penalties on countries that will not cooperate and it has seemingly endorsed a eur 780 million budget. well, quite frankly, this is a serious matter and it is one for sovereign national parliament decision, not the mickey-mouse decisions in this chamber.
madam president, the humanitarian crisis at europe’s borders is mainly of europe’s making. obscene and needless military intervention in the middle east and north africa have ignited conflicts in the region, displacing millions. whilst the vast majority of these people seek refuge in neighbouring nations, some seek to join their families and relocate to europe. the failure of the council meeting on migration to provide safe and legal access for refugees fleeing the harrowing impacts of conflicts is absolutely shameful. we need to ensure that all countries do their fair share in resolving this crisis. ireland, as a nation, can accept thousands of refugees. we must ensure that these people become part of the fabric of our society and are not discarded in direct provision sites. we must activate the temporary protection directive, enhance the syria vulnerable persons relocation scheme, and suspend the dublin regulation, which forces refugees and asylum seekers to register in the country they land in. the european focus on keeping them out rather than keeping them safe has resulted in in the drowning of thousands of people in the mediterranean. this crisis is europe’s sinking shame, and the so-called leaders of the eu council on migration should hang their heads in shame.
madam president, while we have been sitting in the chamber, the scenes at the hungarian-serbian border are truly shocking. the contrast between what we have been discussing, which is the inability for some member states to relocate 120 000 refugees, and the fact that tens of thousands of refugees would have gone into lebanon in the last three or four days, is truly extraordinary. what a contrast to see this. everyone from all parts of the political spectrum in this chamber should see what these images are saying about the european union. those like angelika niebler, who just now said that we should please act together, should understand that this is now about the european union and the ability for us to follow the commissioner and his plans and the presidency, which is well organised. at 3 o’clock, even parliament realised that it must vote tomorrow because the member states in the minority were not acting. everything is there for us to do, but we have not done it because of those member states. we were not born yesterday: we know who is blocking this. let us unblock it, do something and stop the shame of europe and those who think they know better. they do not know better. we must act together and act quickly on this refugee crisis.
madam president, this is an unprecedented situation, because many millions of people are trying to escape horrific wars. but countries are helping in different ways: my polish colleagues have talked to me about the hundreds of thousands of people who have escaped from ukraine into poland; my croatian colleague has told me how her tiny country is trying to help thousands of people arriving there today; in the uk, we have sent over gbp 1 billion of aid to the region already and have, just today, offered to send a naval ship, hms richmond, to help in the combat against traffickers. i hope that the commission will give a swift response to that offer. countries can help in different ways: we should respect this. i am concerned that the top—down quotas will build resentment. we need to work together to do more in the reception centres and more to help the millions of people in the region, but please let us stop the finger pointing because that is damaging. the quotas will build resentment and do not help.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, both speakers have made a link between the previous debate on migration and the debate on the sustainable development goals. they are right to do so, because what we are doing in new york is talking about the right of everybody on this planet to live to live a decent life in the future. what i would like to see come out of new york is a commitment to finish the job that we started when we agreed the millennium development goals: to put poverty eradication at the heart of our development policy and an agreement which recognises that ‘business as usual’ on the environment and climate change is simply not enough to guarantee a future with sustainable economic growth. the good news is that we have got a text. there will be no haggling at the last minute in new york. but i hope the easy agreement does not mean that some governments imagine that the text can be forgotten, put away in a cupboard and pulled out every now and then and that they can pick and choose which of the 17 goals and 169 targets to focus on. i am pleased, commissioner timmermans, that you have talked about how the eu will go ahead and implement that deal here inside the eu because there are two aspects, as you said. firstly, how we make it relate to our development policy and our external action and, secondly, how it relates to our other environment and climate change objectives. so the first task is to get the right indicators and to get a common methodology, and i hope you will involve parliament in those discussions in the future. finally, a word on the cop agreement in paris. as things stand today, the emissions cut pledges on the table do not add up to the 2°c target. in fact, they deliver us a 3°c rise in temperatures. this is simply not enough. i know from having been in africa that people in the poorest countries are already living with climate change, and it is they who will pay the price if we do not act. so we have to get a proper commitment on the actual pledges on climate change. on the financing, as the minister said, it is not enough to say that we will commit. we have to see the money. i was in turkey at the weekend, going to refugee camps, and i met the un agencies. they are not getting the money that they have been pledged to help refugees now. we need to press on these points and deliver real money on the table.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, if i may i will focus upon the cop discussions, where i think we have much to embrace and some challenges to meet. listening yesterday to christiana figueres, the un negotiator, it was perfectly evident that her ambition of making the 2°c target is not going to be realised; 3°c was her best ambition. the reality is that that failure will be felt most keenly by those who can least afford to address the problems themselves. i had the pleasure, before the summer recess, of hosting here at parliament two ambassadors, one from the maldives and one from vanuatu, and they were talking about the challenges that they face. for them, when people talk about 1°c, 2°c or 3°c, they are not thinking about it in terms of degrees; they are thinking about it in terms of feet and inches of water taking over their land, or indeed thinking of the beaufort scale and the winds that sweep across some of those islands. those are the challenges which we must be able to recognise. if we are not able to do so, the challenge will be very clear: migration will be a global problem and we will have to meet its challenges.
madam president, it is unfortunate that the united nations, as a body that began to protect and empower citizens of the world, has been reduced to a mere target-setter for member states. in next week’s conference in new york, heads of un member states from all across the world will sign 17 development goals with 169 targets. compare this to the eight millennium goals with 21 targets that they signed only 15 years ago. the goals were noble and meaningful, but not achieved. if we have been unable to achieve the eight, what makes anyone think that we can achieve the 17? it is also unfortunate that the un has decided to focus on the long term, rather than place its emphasis on what needs to be done right now. the camps in lebanon, jordan and libya are full of syrian refugees. they are weakly protected and there is a 59% funding gap in respect of what they need in order to house these people safely. there is no wonder, therefore, that refugees are forced into a double exodus, first fleeing syria and then the camps themselves. if the un are not looking after the refugees in the camps, is there any wonder the people are seeking a better life here in europe?
madam president, tackling poverty and tackling climate change are of course two sides of the same coin. the un’s sustainable development agenda cannot be considered in isolation from the wider conversation on cop 21. an essential component in tackling both the eradication of poverty and climate change is financing. i am hugely encouraged by the words of the first vice-president today when he says that private finance can, and must, play a significant role in the financing of both development and climate. the huge disparity that exists in different countries’ ability to finance and muster financial resources means that we cannot rely solely on public sources of financing. we all have a role to play in both tackling climate change and tackling poverty. this is why we must ensure that all industries, regardless of the sector – whether they be private or public – play a role, and that they contribute to solving the problem and do not undermine it.
madam president, as this parliament’s rapporteur on corporate responsibility, i would like to welcome sdg 12 and, in particular, target 12.6 on sustainability reporting, and ask commissioner timmermans to defend and promote this text. i have to say that this is less than the text of the 2002 world summit, which called for intergovernmental initiatives, and the rio+20 summit, which called to build on existing initiatives. indeed, it is less than the binding rules that ban ki-moon himself asked for last december, and for which we in parliament voted in our committee opinion on the private sector and development earlier this year. bloomberg found that three in four companies do no sustainability reporting. if governments were only encouraged to meet targets, surely that would not be good enough. many in business agree and want to do more. i thank un negotiator amina mohammed for allowing me to say this directly, even if the final text of the sdgs could go further. in europe we can still showcase our own achievements on non-financial reporting – a directive – adopt the tracker developed by the gri to encourage third country governments to implement this target, and maintain the holistic approach which businesses say they want in seeking to pursue the objectives of integrated reporting and of long-term investment.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the ets has been in place for 10 years and has totally failed to deliver the intended price signals in the market. despite repeated tweaking – back—loading and the market stability reserve – along with other green measures it has forced up energy prices, undermined competitiveness and driven energy—intensive industries out of the eu altogether. often these go to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, and that arguably drives up emissions. we have a policy that undermines our economy, costs jobs and closes plants, and yet which may add to atmospheric co2. we have been obliged to offer derogations to energy—intensive industries to mitigate the effects of carbon leakage, but this negates a large part of the ets system and leaves small and medium-sized businesses carrying the burden. why is it that we in this house, and other eu institutions, seem to be incapable of facing reality and admitting we were wrong? here we are yet again tweaking a failed ets system. why do we not have the courage to say, sorry guys, we meant well, but the ets has comprehensively failed. we will scrap it and go back to the drawing board. just for once, let us recognise reality and apply some common sense, which is something very rare in this parliament. it is high time we did it.
mr president, i hope you will forgive me for focusing upon only one part of the summer package, the emissions trading scheme. it is a great pleasure to take forward this particular dossier and i look forward to working with colleagues across the chamber to try and deliver upon that. i do not think that i am revealing any secrets when i say that there will be challenges ahead but, like navigating through a quagmire, we must make haste slowly, step by step, one step at a time. the un negotiations will set the framework for our discussion so i would not propose putting pen to paper before then: we must let them be our guide through that particular quagmire. but we should use the time right now to learn more, to talk more, and to reach out to those who will be affected, for good or ill, by whatever proposals emerge from our discussions. let me finish by saying that, together in this house, i believe that we can make significant progress. my late mother had an ability to cut a cake and convince all her children that they each had the biggest part. i think that will be my challenge going forward as i try to reach out to all in this particular chamber.
mr president, the commission’s summer energy package contains some sensible suggestions that will help the internal market for energy. i was pleased to see the opening of a public consultation on a new market design for the european electricity system and i look forward to its conclusions. i also welcome the commission’s decision to revert back to the a to g system for energy efficiency labelling. this system is well recognised by consumers and saves them energy and money. i do wonder why it was changed in the first place. it is, though, important that the eu be consistent in its approach to energy efficiency. the recent european court of justice ruling against the united kingdom’s preferential tax rate for energy-efficient materials runs counter to the commission’s drive to reduce emissions. member states should be free to impose lower taxes on energy-efficient products, so i would urge the commissioner to amend the vat directive to allow this to continue.
mr president, within parliament, the s&d group has a position paper defining our priorities on the energy union, which are now becoming legislation with the summer package. as a group, we came up with several messages. first, the energy union needs to facilitate the transition to a sustainable decarbonised economy, based on energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure. the energy union will need to ensure security of supply, enhance the creation of high—quality jobs and develop new export markets through further investment in research and innovation. finally, we want the energy union to guarantee secure, stable and affordable energy for european industries and citizens, with a particular emphasis on job creation and – an issue close to my heart – tackling energy poverty among our most vulnerable citizens. in europe, recent studies showed that only 12% of the most vulnerable consumers are put on the lowest energy tariffs. in its communication on the summer package entitled ‘delivering a new deal for energy consumers’, the commission highlights the need for targeted, effective assistance, reflecting best practices in the energy field, as well as for eu-wide data collection and monitoring of energy poverty. commissioner, no one in 2015 should have to choose between heating, cooling and eating.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, can i first of all say there is no doubt that eur 500 million is a lot of money. the problem arises with that amount of money when it gets down to individual member states, and then when it gets down to the regions of those member states, and indeed when it gets to those regions and to particular farms in those member states. that is the point at which farmers are facing pain. in my own constituency of northern ireland, we have an exacerbated situation because of the weakness of the euro against the pound sterling and the lack of any move on the intervention price. i fear that by refusing to review the price of intervention, the measures rolled out by the commission could prove insufficient. how many of our farmers will be out of business, and how long will it be before these long-term measures take effect? there are a number of areas i would like you, commissioner, to maybe elaborate on. is there any role for money from the super levy? is that part of this package? is it coming in to pay for the package? on aid to private storage, how long do you estimate it will take from withdrawal of the product before it has an impact on the market? can i say i also welcome the new psa scheme for cheese, and that unused allocations can be redistributed within three months. it may not be possible, but why not make that two months and make it even speedier? state aid, in my opinion, is something of a misnomer and i fear that all it will do is uneven the playing field – bad enough as it is at the moment within agriculture – and bring more inefficiency into the sector. advance payments can be a poisoned chalice. what happens if the inspections are inadequate? will they be given a bye ball? the payment agencies need to know. in europe, too often the attitude is ‘if in doubt appoint a high-level group’, but again, whatever the merits of the long-term solution, it is a long-term solution like the mmo and other ideas, when what we have is a short-term problem. can i finish by commending the commission proposal on the eur 30 million which will be used to take advantage of displaced refugees in european countries neighbouring war zones. i congratulate the commission on that particular proposal. times are hard on the farm and we all have to work together to find a solution.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, well, i am not going to be tearing anything up just at the moment. i would like to tear up your speech though, if i could read it, josé. all actions have consequences, and if you encourage people to have hopes that cannot be fulfilled then you will invite resentment and hostility. the european union does this all the time. the eu unsettled the citizens of ukraine and russia retaliated with a ban on western food imports. who pays the price for this? not the well-paid eu officials but farmers across europe, who have lost a significant market, have found themselves in a situation of oversupply, and experience the inevitable crash in income. for – make no mistake – as russia bulldozes illegal ham and cheese into the ground, the eu must appreciate that this is the consequence of its own actions. severe punishment, of course, will be meted out by the russians to those of its own citizens who facilitated the sanctions-busting – and god knows what they are going through at the moment – but again the eu officials will not feel the pain. the recently announced rescue package to agriculture to compensate farmers for their losses will do no such thing. there is one glaring contradiction in the proposals. the commission has promised farmers access to financial and risk-hedging instruments as part of the package. farmers have always had these in the form of futures markets. however, the eu is, at this very minute, making participation in futures markets much more difficult in its mifid ii legislation. i have to say to you josé – and martin häusling over there – that you have campaigned in the last six years for the abolition of futures markets in agriculture, and yet these help us enormously. exemptions for farmers are essential if the tools are to benefit at all. so please do not promise what you cannot deliver. the eu has long pursued a policy of market intervention, generating hopes and expectations, which it can no longer afford. responsible supply chain management is now required, and not handouts. the failure to understand basic economics leads me to the new face in british politics. until this month, jeremy corbyn made herman van rompuy look high profile. and what is mr corbyn’s first action on food and farming? well, he appoints a vegan – that is somebody who does not eat meat, milk or eggs – as the spokesman. i very much hope that the new labour spokesman, kerry mccarthy, comes to brussels to brief paolo de castro and the socialist comrades into her way of thinking. i would love to be a fly on the wall in that conversation. i hope the eu’s protesting farmers will, in turn, let her know theirs.
mr president, agricultural commodity prices always track global energy prices. so at a time when we have experienced falling gas and oil prices farmers have also suffered from over-supplied global commodity markets, the russian trade ban, exchange rate issues, and in some commodities exceptional factors such as the end of the milk quota. so this is not a normal cyclical downturn. these are exceptional times and exceptional circumstances, and farming is caught up in a perfect storm. so i make two points. first, i am happy that the commissioner recognises the very tough times our farmers are facing and i compliment him on the aid package, which i think is both appropriate and welcome. second, while the storm will pass, i urge both the commission and the farming industry to learn the lessons of this crisis, and in so doing to turn it into an opportunity to build a more competitive and more resilient food sector for the future.
mr president, does the commissioner agree that fairness in agricultural markets is not just about producers, processors and retailers, but is also about consumers? much of what we have addressed this evening is essentially about the short—term difficulties in the supply chain, especially in the dairy sector. i agree with the commissioner that raising the milk intervention price is not the right answer. instead, we should be unleashing the power of the consumer, unleashing the power of the customer. a significant minority – maybe even a majority – of eu customers want to help our eu farmers. this could be achieved if we had an independent fair price certification scheme, similar to the existing fairtrade mark which guarantees a fair price is being paid to the farmer in the developing world. such a scheme would enable the customer to easily identify our farmers’ products, even if this means paying an additional, slightly higher, price. many will do so. customers and farmers alike need a fair deal to guarantee a fair price at the farm gate.
mr president, i want to take this opportunity to send a message from this house to my fellow socialists and my fellow trade unionists in the united kingdom, who may be led astray by talk of david cameron’s deal on workers’ rights. i want to say to them that david cameron has to go back to his tory party and tell them that he has done a deal on workers’ rights, when those people in the tory party know what we do here on workers’ rights. they know what we have been doing for decades in giving rights to people at work which british governments, like the major government in the 1990s, would never otherwise give if they did not have to. that is why he has to pretend that he has got a deal. i want to assure comrades back in britain, though, that it will not be a real deal. it will just be the usual smoke and mirrors and blarney from david cameron.
mr president, europe has a drug problem and one that we can no longer afford to ignore. legal highs are cheap, readily available and on the rise as a convenient high street alternative to illegal street drugs. labelled as ‘not for human consumption’, these new psychoactive substances have effects that are wholly unpredictable and increasingly deadly. leading charities in regions like my own of north-east england – charities such as changing lives – have called for legislation to close legal loopholes and take on the vendors and the organised crime groups that exploit them. parliament has supported action. as long as the council continues to stall on this desperately—needed regulation, the death toll in regions like my own will continue to climb. we cannot afford to wait. the time to act is now.
mr president, the institutions of government in the north of ireland are experiencing a crisis. this crisis has been brought about by unacceptable reductions to the budget allocated by the british government. the crisis has been exacerbated by cynical political opportunism on the part of unionist political parties. the only way through this is all-party talks and extensive discussions. the british government has not taken an even-handed, nor an impartial, approach and, as for the irish government, it has detached itself almost entirely. recently this parliament endorsed a resolution supporting the irish peace and political processes – processes which are now under attack. we in sinn féin are calling on the president of parliament, martin schulz, to apply positive pressure on the co—guarantors of the good friday agreement – the british and irish governments – to press for inclusive, all-party talks to commence without precondition and without delay. in the past, outside help has assisted us in breaking deadlocks. assistance this time should come from parliament in order to protect and defend the irish peace and political processes, which act as a beacon light to other areas that are emerging from conflict.
in writing. ‒ i cannot accept the content of the commission work programme 2016, and therefore voted against it. i did so chiefly on two grounds: it pursues a counterproductive agenda on the migration issue, which will make matters worse rather than better – and fails to take into account those refugees in non-eu countries; it continues to cover areas which should be dealt with directly by the member states rather than the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission work programme 2016, as i cannot accept its content, specifically its pursuit of a counter-productive agenda on the migration crisis, which will only make matters worse by failing to account for those refugees who are in other parts of the globe, away from eu member states, or adjoining countries. this programme covers areas which should be dealt with directly by the member states rather than from a european union dimension, as a whole. i did however abstain on paragraph 101, part 2,as i fully support the concept of assistance to genuine refugees, in accordance with the 1951 geneva convention on refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution as it encourages the eu commission to initiate more wide-ranging legislation and wasteful eu spending. it calls for economic and political union and external action, welcomes the commission agenda on migration, calls for stronger eu control on state aid, calls for more eu control of industrial policy, calls for a mandatorily common consolidated corporate tax base, calls for stronger economic and monetary union, and calls for the eu to join the european convention of human rights (echr). all of this will transfer more power from our elected and accountable national government to unelected bureaucrats in brussels, as well as wasting more of the uk taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as a whole, and particularly voted against calling on the commission to come up with improved eu initiatives on a mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base – which is utter madness, and unfortunately was carried. no two nations are alike, and tax competition is crucial for countries like ireland, who have been able to attract a great deal of investment (mainly from the usa) thanks to this flexibility. just more eu power-grabbing.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour party colleagues, i voted in favour of this resolution as it examines key european parliamentary labour party concerns about the eurozone crisis and seeks to address these concerns by creating better regulation and better standards. the 2016 commission work programme will need to focus on promoting the eu social dimension as well as better standards in industrial policy and should spell out a clear position on the digital revolution and its implications for both social standards and employment in the eu. europe is facing a number of crises, from youth unemployment to the crisis in the mediterranean. we need real solutions, which can only come about when we work together.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as it urges the commission to use its right of initiative to its full extent. europe needs to respond with a clear vision, direction, leadership, ambition and courage to the challenges we face both internally and externally, to show that it is capable of meeting the expectations of our citizens, offering them prospects and creating trust, by making the eu a truly democratic union, a parliamentary democracy and an arena where citizens can steer and shape their continent in the interests of preserving and consolidating their standard of living.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding resolution as it encourages the eu commission to initiate more wide ranging legislation and wasteful eu spending. it calls for economic and political union and external action, welcomes the commission agenda on migration, calls for stronger eu control on state aid, calls for more eu control of industrial policy, calls for a mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base, calls for stronger economic and monetary union, and calls for the eu to join the european convention of human rights (echr). all of this will transfer more power from our elected and accountable national government to unelected bureaucrats in brussels, as well as wasting more of the uk taxpayer’s money.
in writing. ‒ after much negotiation between my group, the socialists and democrats, and the european people’s party – as well as with the liberals and the greens – the joint motion for a resolution had the backing of over two—thirds of parliament. with s&d positions involved, this motion for a resolution will be strong on the eu social dimension, a fairer taxation policy, better standards in trade policy and a clear position on the digital revolution and what that means for social standards. furthermore, along with my group, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it addresses some key concerns regarding the eurozone crisis and looks at creating better regulation and better standards. particularly important in this report was the inclusion of the holistic approach to migration and asylum, which ‘stresses the need to provide safety for asylum seekers in the process of requesting refugee status and to remove refugees’ need to choose risky routes into the eu.’ it was great that we were able to include so many other political groups in this joint motion, and we were able to combat the influence of those who care little for democracy and inclusion.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, earlier you said that you wanted us to help the most needy – and my group would agree with you – but the most needy are not those who have the wealth, the health and the ability to walk from syria to the borders of europe. the most needy are those in the refugee camps of turkey and lebanon. so my group will vote against this proposal because we do not think that opening the gates of europe to anyone that can get to the frontier is the right method of helping them. we also think it is wrong, as a matter of principle, that the european union orders – or, in your words, forces – member states to accept people into their countries against their will. (applause from the right)
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the unhcr says there are currently 59 million displaced people in the world. clearly, voting for this resolution today – for this legislation today – sends a message that actually europe is prepared to accept limitless numbers of people. that, actually, is politically and physically impossible. would it not be better, and more intelligent, for us to think about what the 1951 geneva convention and definition of a genuine refugee is? it is a person or persons who, as a result of their race, religion, political beliefs or orientation, are directly in fear of persecution. if we were, as member states, to apply that and to help genuine refugees, we would take the support of our public with us. opening up the door to countless millions, encouraging an exodus of biblical proportions and directly contributing towards the profits of the traffickers, hence leading to more people drowning in the mediterranean, does not make sense. (applause from the right)
in writing. ‒ the entire principle of how the european union is dealing with the migrant crisis is wrong and counterproductive. it will lead to more suffering, not less. eu refugee quotas are the wrong way to go about handling this situation. i supported various amendments to this resolution to mitigate its impact, but voted against the final commission proposal and legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal, which relocates 120 000 people from greece, hungary and italy to other eu member states, as i believe that it only serves to encourage further mass movement into the eu, thus possibly causing a further humanitarian crisis in both the mediterranean and across the sahara desert. the definition of ‘international protection’ was not stipulated as in the 1951 geneva convention, but rather as an eu definition based on a separate directive. this will force member states to take an allocation of people – or if they try to opt out, they will be obliged to pay 0.002% of their gdp to the eu. furthermore, eu taxpayers will pay eur 6 000 per person to the allocated country and eur 500 per person to greece, italy and hungary. as the eu enjoys freedom of movement, without border checks within the schengen area, there is nothing to stop refugees from illegally travelling to many other eu member states. the estimated budget cost is eur 780 000. thankfully, the uk enjoys a separate opt-out under protocol 21. however, the uk will still be affected due to people trying to enter, thus exacerbating this humanitarian crisis further.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal of relocating 120 000 people from greece, italy and hungary to other member states as it will only serve to encourage another mass movement of people into europe, which will inevitably lead to another humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean. the definition of ‘international protection’ was not stipulated as in the 1951 geneva convention, but rather an eu definition based on a separate directive. it will force member states to take an allocation of people – or if they try to opt out they will have to pay 0.002% of their gdp to the eu. on top of this the eu (taxpayers) will pay eur 6 000 per person to the allocated country and eur 500 per person to greece, italy and hungary. as the eu has freedom of movement and no border checks internally in many member states, there is nothing stopping any of these people simply leaving that country and travelling to other countries illegally. the estimated budgetary cost for this is eur 780 000 000. thankfully the uk has a separate opt-out (protocol 21); however, it will still affect the uk due to the movement of people trying to enter and of course encourage another humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour party colleagues, i voted in favour of these measures because europe needs a spirit of cooperation and a common approach right now. what is currently happening is unprecedented and will require a completely new european approach, something that can only be achieved if all 28 member states come together and agree on a plan of action. no one member state can do this alone, nor should they have to. working together, the eu can provide safety and protection to those in need, but this crisis is also an opportunity, a chance to demonstrate european cooperation, what we can achieve together and how effective we are as a bloc. we have a moral duty to act; we must help these people fleeing torture and persecution. eu governments cannot allow the current chaos and tragedy to continue.
in writing. ‒ following the council meeting on monday and the lack of consensus – or urgency – in reaching majority agreement on an organised and compassionate response to the refugee crisis here in the eu, it is absolutely vital that parliament speaks to this issue directly and immediately. parliament’s backing in record time of the commission’s 9 september proposal to relocate 120 000 asylum seekers sends a clear signal to eu home affairs ministers that it is high time to act and finally agree on this second emergency scheme. i applaud the european solidarity expressed by the house on the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the council decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary, which comes with mandatory quotas for the relocation of 120 000 refugees, in the final vote, in line with the position of the czech republic and in view of my long-standing opinion that mandatory quotas are inappropriate and ineffective. the proposal itself mentions the return of refugees relocated to one country if they leave for another country than the one they were assigned to. this also gives me confidence that the quota system will not be effective and that refugees will continue to migrate to member countries where they want to go and where they have not been relocated. i voted in the sub-vote to support the proposal to change mandatory quotas to voluntary, but it didn't pass.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal of relocating 120 000 people from greece, italy and hungary to other member states as it will only serve to encourage another mass movement of people into europe, which will inevitably lead to another humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean. the definition of ‘international protection’ was not stipulated as in the 1951 geneva convention, but rather an eu definition based on a separate directive. it will force member states to take an allocation of people – or if they try to opt out they will have to pay 0.002% of their gdp to the eu. on top of this the eu (taxpayers) will pay eur 6 000 per person to the allocated country and eur 500 per person to greece, italy and hungary. as the eu has freedom of movement and no border checks internally in many member states, there is nothing stopping any of these people simply leaving that country and travelling to other countries illegally. the estimated budgetary cost for this is eur 780 000 000. thankfully the uk has a separate opt-out (protocol 21); however, it will still affect the uk due to the movement of people trying to enter and of course encourage another humanitarian crisis.
blue-card question.– rushed legislation is often bad legislation. i note particularly the five questions raised by the committee on budgets on 14 september 2015 concerning this legislation. do you feel that the commission has provided a sufficient response to those questions?
madam president, of course we all feel for the greek people. what is going on there is terrible for the people of greece. they are not to blame for the situation at all. we have been told greece is in dire need of help and is suffering economic disaster. well, as basil fawlty would say, ‘specialised subject: the bleeding obvious’. the measures to help pass through the committee came through with very little debate or democratic scrutiny at all. they passed through easily and smoothly to come to this place. i am concerned by some of them, and i suggest that the greeks should remember the words of president reagan when he said – and i paraphrase badly – that ‘i am from the government and i am here to help’ are the most frightening words in the english language. i would suggest that ‘i am from the eu and here to help’ are perhaps the most terrifying words in the english language. help never comes without strings and it is never straightforward. the greek state reminds me very much of my uncle. he is a great chap, a likeable, top person, but he always needs and wants more than he can actually afford at the time, so he ends up asking for his money and his wages frontloaded. he never deals with the real problem, which is that he spends too much on beer and cigarettes. the greek state should deal with the real problem. they should begin by leaving the eurozone: that is the obvious way forward for them. what will happen when other countries within the eurozone see what happens here, see this precedent and demand any funds to them to be frontloaded? it is unsustainable. maybe we should appoint basil fawlty as an eu commissioner and perhaps he can then point out the ‘bleeding obvious’ and we can get some common sense in this place.
madam president, it has often been said and it was said again today that the eu is based on solidarity, or at least it should be. the economic and financial situation greece faced gave the eu an opportunity to show such solidarity, and unfortunately it took a long time before the eu stepped up to the plate and took any action. indeed, i would say maybe the lack of action by the eu has made the problems in greece even worse. even with a new agreement in place now, i still think greece faces huge problems in the future in terms of its economy. also, of course, it now faces a refugee crisis too. greece, like other member states, is facing a huge burden and i would say that perhaps the best way – or one of the best ways – the european union can help countries like greece is through the european structural funds. the structural funds should be going to improve the economy and the prosperity of places like greece. i would also hope that the structural funds could be used to alleviate the problems due to the refugee crisis by helping with funding for infrastructure and social inclusion measures as well. i am pleased that the eu commissioner, commissioner crețu, seems open to that idea in the future. i would hope that tomorrow we would help to support greece. greece needs that help now. it is no good providing this funding sometime in the distant future: we need to provide help and investment to greece as soon as possible. i support the measures put forward by the commission. i support this parliament and the council taking speedy action to put those measures in place, and i hope tomorrow all colleagues – or as many colleagues as possible – will support these measures to help greece.
blue-card question.– would you not agree with me that interfering in the good ordering of national governments, through the eu giving money to local governments, is surely an eu plot to destroy the sovereign nation-state by stealth and by buying local politicians? do you agree with me, sir?
madam president, it is a fact that corruption in developing nations is endemic. this has been the case for decades, and it has become an almost cultural norm in many countries that find it difficult to make national and local government transparent and accountable. the idea that somehow bypassing the top layer of government will see less waste of our money is a naive idea, to say the least. the turkish proverb ‘the fish stinks from the head down’ is very pertinent here. if you have a corrupt national government it is safe to say that there will be corruption within a nation at every level. the idea that it will be easier to police hundreds or even thousands of local authorities when you cannot do the job with dozens of national governments is ludicrous. one of the first duties of government is to ensure that the taxes that they collect from their citizens are treated with respect. if we cannot guarantee that the aid we hand over is managed within a framework in which we have confidence, if we cannot be sure that we are not propping up corrupt regimes or paying for fleets of mercedes limos and private jets, then we should not be handing over aid at all. the message should be: get your own house in order if you expect our help. paying local authorities directly undermines the nation state and could be used to gerrymander the overthrow of legitimate, but poor, governments pursuing eu objectives. if the eu directly funds tribal councils in africa or the middle east it will undermine national unity in the strength of legitimate central authorities. surely, rewarding good governance and refusing to reward bad governance should be the ethos of development aid.
blue-card question.– surely this is extending the tentacles of corruption of the european union throughout the world? this is wrong. nation-states should be respected and the order of government should be respected. this is appalling. i hope you will agree with me.
blue-card question.– whenever money is given, there is always some kind of underlying politics. i just wonder how you would feel if russia decided that the local authorities in your country were in need of some development aid and started paying your councils money. would you like that? would you think that would be acceptable to the people in your area?
madam president, decision-making should always take place as close to citizens as possible. that is a key aspect of democracy and a core value of the eu. it is clear, therefore, that local authorities have a crucial role to play in sustainable development, centred on citizen participation and grassroots engagement. development cooperation also depends on intercultural understanding and dialogue. this is something which the millennium development goals underestimated and which will, hopefully, be rectified in future. local authorities can play an important role in dialogue with their counterparts in europe. there are common issues to address, and best practice on both sides – such as the exemplary brazilian participatory budgeting model – should be considered. one issue that is hardly mentioned in the report is gender equality, including women’s representation. improving gender balance in local government is a crucial aspect of women’s empowerment and will make for more holistic, inclusive and sustainable development. however, this is not just a development issue. in england, for example, only 32% of local councillors are women. to conclude, we need to strive towards this goal together.
madam president, many developing states already feel that they have little control over the activities of both donors and ngos. a good example of how a state tries to manage control of its situation is in somaliland, where the government has set up a national planning office, ensuring that there is a national strategy – that there is joined-up thinking and that funding is directed towards agreed national priorities. like the uk government and other actors, the eu, as a donor, has some input into these national priorities. thus it is both absurd and contradictory to now discuss negotiating directly with local authorities, undermining national governments and accountability – very much in the model of the role that the eu readily takes with its own member states. this debate underlines your desire to assume the role of a neo-colonial power and highlights your lust for influence, thus showing a lack of consideration of how this strategy has a real chance of destroying young and fragile democracies. shame on you all!
madam president, our work in the committee on petitions, of which i am a member, focuses on the important role that the european union plays in giving redress to consumers, this time in spain but often in other countries, who have been affected by the irresponsible behaviour of others. one million british citizens live in spain; many of them have mortgages. to restore the confidence of consumers across europe, and to protect those taking out a mortgage in the future, we need to see all member states pushing banks to act responsibly and provide clear, understandable and correct information. the implementation of the mortgage credit directive will ensure a more transparent, efficient and competitive internal market that should provide a high level of consumer protection in the future. european union citizens have sent us a strong and a clear call for action via those petitions that we received. we must now hear that call and ensure that their rights are protected.
madam president, the 2008 subprime crisis in the us created chaos across the mortgage markets in the eu due to irresponsible lending. it was in that year that spain’s housing bubble collapsed. this still continues to impact on many borrowers, who found their loans increasingly unaffordable, with a high level of defaults and foreclosures, which continues to rise. i genuinely sympathise with their plight. we need to have action to avoid eviction for those most in need – the young, the elderly and the young with families. what is needed is greater restructuring of the debt system. in 2011 the commission created legislation for a fair single market for mortgages. its focus was to ensure that all consumers getting a property or a mortgage on their home had adequate protection on risk. but, sadly, this is yet to be implemented fully across all member states. therefore, i call upon the commission to ensure that member states implement better lending practices and to lessen the stark contrast between practices in member states, which leaves our citizens exposed.
mr president, the hacking team revelations show up some serious failures. they show a failure by the italian government to hold firm on banning the export of this dangerous technology, and a failure of common sense, decency and basic morality in those who failed to consider the impact of their actions. this spying software has been sold even to saudi arabia. have we forgotten that this is the country which started to flog raif badawi, which beheads people on the flimsiest of evidence, and proposes to behead and crucify ali mohammed al-nimr for protesting against the saudi government when he was just 17? yet, even in the uk, we seem to consider these people to be our friends. we sell them equipment too. when the saudi arabian king died, we flew our flags at half-mast. perhaps we too in the uk need to take a good, hard, long look in the mirror.
mr president, currently talks are ongoing to resolve serious problems with devolved government in northern ireland. this is no contrived crisis, but has come about as a result of a murder on the streets of belfast. the chief constable of the police service of northern ireland has linked that murder to the provisional ira – a paramilitary organisation linked to one of the parties in northern ireland and, indeed, a party whose representatives sit in this parliament, namely sinn féin. such an event cannot be swept under the carpet. it cannot simply be ‘business as usual’ in northern ireland. we want to see progress made in the talks towards ending all paramilitary activity in northern ireland. these groups should never have existed and we must see their grip on communities finally ended. this murder took place at a time of great financial uncertainty facing northern ireland. that financial uncertainty, too, is caused by the failure of republicans and nationalists to live up to their agreements.
mr president, last friday the ssi steel works at redcar in my constituency entered into receivership and 1 700 direct jobs, plus as many as 6 000 jobs in the supply chain in the local economy, are now under threat. the uk conservative government has refused to consider giving state aid, arguing that it would be against the commission’s state rules for steel. however, as the italian government has shown at the ilva steel plant in taranto, sicily, this is simply not the case. labour meps believe the time has come for the european union to come together to deal with the global challenge of chinese steel dumping, and the time has come for the european union to update the rules on state aid for a now-globalised world. at the planned summit on uk steel, government, industry and all stakeholders must come together and find a sustainable, viable future for this vital sector, rather than issuing meaningless platitudes. a plan is currently on the table to save part of the steel works, and i believe the receivers need to prioritise that, thereby securing the maximum number of jobs on teesside.
mr president, one of the roles that eurosceptics play in this chamber is that we are here to provide a little balance, because if you hear no dissenting voice on an issue then legislation can end up going through on the nod. in that context, i would like to point out three concerns with regard to geographical indications. first of all, they create barriers for new businesses’ entry into a particular market. if you have a geographical indication – say for example on one type of cheese – it can make it harder for a new business selling cheese to set up in that area. secondly, they narrow competition and that means that consumers can often have less choice, rather than more choice. thirdly, they fix capital within a particular geographical area, which may not always be in the strategic interest of the country concerned, or of the region concerned.
blue-card question.– my question is very simple. i wonder if you could help me understand – who are these people who were talking today, and what has happened? everyone is talking about changing. we must have external borders, we must have controls, and we must make sure that we do not get overwhelmed with all these migrants coming in. who are these people? are they the same ones who have unfailingly voted through everything, saying that we should allow more and more people to come here and encourage the flow? do you think they are the same people? could you help me to identify who on earth is talking today?
blue-card question.– mr guerrero salom, would you agree with me that, rather than dragging people across europe, it would be better for the european union to be persuading the kuwaitis and the saudis to build good, proper camps on the borders of syria and turkey? would that not be a sensible solution, rather than dragging people across europe, creating resentment and other problems? surely that must be a better way of doing it. would you agree with me, sir?
mr president, many people today have talked about solutions, but we know those are going to be long-term. in the meantime, we have a situation we have to manage. so i welcome the increase in funding for the unhcr and the world food programme, but i think it is really shocking that so many member states last year cut their support for the world food programme, so that we are seeing people in the region concerned living on half a dollar a day. those member states – particularly those that have not been willing to join in the solidarity programme – should hang their heads in shame about the additional suffering they are causing. one has to ask whether those concerned would stay if they were trying to live on that and support their family. i would also agree with many of those who spoke on turkey. it is not a safe third country for kurds and we should be supporting the kurds in the area of rojava, and in turkey itself, because they are part of the solution. lastly, i think we have a challenge about putting into operation the decisions taken. if we are talking about rules and are making it clear to people that there are rules, then can we make sure we have staff on the ground and information in relevant languages, and that the asylum process starts at the moment of arrival, not a few days afterwards once people have been spoken to by frontex and various other organisations. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– that is a valid question. we are not hearing much about what is happening to establish peace on the ground, and to actually deal with some of the other underlying issues – questions about democracy and questions about how we are tackling climate change in the region, which is certainly a contributory factor to the instability. indeed, as was pointed out earlier, we are not really looking at how to have a consistent policy towards governments which actually oppress – and are even bombing – their own people.
mr president, mr tusk refers to all migrants as refugees. they are not. some are, but most are not. they are economic migrants. last saturday, hundreds of migrants at calais again tried to enter the uk illegally. with the risk of criminals and jihadi terrorists slipping across our porous borders, i fear the safety of the british people is at risk yet again. according to eurotunnel, we are now seeing left-wing british anarchists stirring up trouble in the migrant camps. please, french authorities, do us all a favour and deal with them in your own unique way of crowd control. while you are doing this, could i remind you that the migrants cutting the fences are criminals, the migrants breaking into lorries are criminals, and the migrants storming the tunnel are criminals? why are the calais authorities and the french government failing to stop this? they can do so under the dublin agreement by arresting, detaining and deporting. hungary’s viktor orbán shows leadership by taking the appropriate measures. he is being a good european, entering into the solidarity that is so often spoken about in this parliament. other countries should follow his example. the majority of the leaders in this place give out open invitations. is it any wonder the migrants come? to end this crisis it is crucial to start upholding the dublin rules and to take back full control of our borders.
blue-card question.– madam joly, you say that the european union will never exist on the basis that you hope it will exist, and does that not underline the problem of this utopian fantasy? does that not underline how the 28 eu member states – whether you people here like it or not – will always have their best national interests at heart? do you agree with me that actually this is really, if you are being honest, a failed plan?
mr president, i would like to start by questioning the very title of this debate. the eu is calling the crisis we have in europe at the moment a refugee crisis, basically to pull on heartstrings and to suit its own political ends. let me make it clear that the crisis we have in europe at the moment is not a refugee crisis, it is an economic migrant crisis. (applause from certain quarters) that is not just my appraisal. it is also that of robert fico, the prime minister of slovakia, who has said that 95% of the people who are coming to our continent are not refugees: they are economic migrants. indeed eurostat, the eu’s own statistical collecting body, has reported that 85% of the people coming are not from war-torn syria, but from pakistan, albania, nigeria and the gambia. so let us, at least, not insult everyone’s intelligence, and let us call this crisis what it is, however politically incorrect you might find that, mr timmermans. it is an economic migrant crisis, not a refugee crisis. mr timmermans, it is a case of people moving from poor countries to rich countries and in the meantime breaking international law – and you would think we would do something about that, would you not? but, amazingly, we are not doing something about it. actually we are just encouraging it. then, of course, there is the security aspect of this total farce. isis has already told us that it is going to flood our continent with their islamist lunatics, so you would think we would be doing something to prevent that. but no, we are doing quite the opposite: we are putting the lives of our own citizens at risk – the lives of people like those here in the gallery. we are putting them at risk by not stopping the boats. the german authorities last week reported that one in three so-called ‘syrians’ are arriving with fake passports. they are on sale on the turkish black market for eur 750. we do not know who these people are! one of the founding principles of the european union, mr timmermans, is freedom of movement of people. what we are probably allowing now is freedom of movement of jihad. i fear that in the future, in the very near future, we will all have blood on our hands as a result. (applause from certain quarters)
on a point of order, mr president, i assumed that the members of this parliament here are all elected, and indeed i am quite right in believing that all members of this parliament were elected in last year’s european elections. mr timmermans, with respect, you are a member of the commission; you have no right to interact during a parliamentary debate. (the president cut off the speaker)(heckling from the floor (messrs nutall and carver): ‘we got elected; you did not’)
blue-card question to paul nuttall. – the question really is this: i have visited lebanon, jordan, iraq and also serbia. all i saw was refugees there. i would like to ask paul nuttall this question. three-year-old aylan, whose body was found: what was he, in your opinion?
blue-card answer to afzal khan.– he was the son of a family that had been in turkey – a safe country – for many, many years. in fact, the father was trying to get to canada to get a new set of teeth! so, look, the big question here is simply this, our continent is being flooded by migrants at the moment, economic migrants, whilst saudia arabia, qatar, kuwait, bahrain and the united arab emirates are doing absolutely nothing. in fact all they are doing – i will give you an example – is that saudi arabia has offered to build 200 wahhabi mosques in germany. it is madness. we need to protect our borders and we should look to the australians for a way of doing things. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, this is the first time our parliament has discussed this issue, on both the internal and external aspects of the refugee crisis together. i think that is a sign of what has been missing so far in our debate, namely a holistic approach, looking at the two things together. i was in turkey three weeks ago with a delegation from the committee on development and we could see that lack of coherence in our policy there. i think you are absolutely right: we have to talk to turkey, because without turkey we are not going to get a solution to the problem, and we have to work more with the united nations agencies. what we saw there was that we – that is the member states – have cut our budgets to these agencies, and we have to change that. and yes they were refugees, these people in turkey. we met children who have lost their limbs: they are refugees, no doubt about it. we need more resources for immediate needs, we need money for education for those children. the families are losing hope, they are getting weary: that is why they are coming here. we need education, and i hope people will support the budget amendments we have to increase money for education. we need a legal route to resettlement, directly from the camps to the eu. and, finally, we need more support for ngos working directly in syria. they are not getting enough support. they are the only people getting humanitarian aid into parts of syria and that is very urgent. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card question. – are you really suggesting that we should have a motorway for isis right through europe? have you no sense at all? this is ridiculous! what is going to happen to europe? (heckling)you are going to change the nature of the whole of europe. it is madness! (applause from certain quarters)
blue-card answer.– i tell you what i do know: 15 months ago nigel farage told the british public he thought more should be done to support syrian refugees. now we have a chance to do it and you lot over there are saying there is no such thing as a syrian refugee. i think you really do not have a policy, and i think this is just a cheap, electorally motivated attempt to get votes, as mr timmermans said earlier.
blue-card question.– thank you for your speech: much of it made good common sense. would you agree with me that one of the most disgraceful things that has happened during this whole crisis – whether it be a refugee crisis or migrant crisis, whatever you wish to call it – is people using images of suffering people to try and tug at the heart strings of the public in order to change well—set, well—meaning border controls, which we need within the eu and within member states, and that the people who use these images to try and tug at our heart strings for their own political gains are a disgrace?
mr president, i very much welcome the title of the debate, unlike some other colleagues today, and i very much welcome what ms mcavan said. this is the first time that the external dimension has been brought together with what we are talking about in terms of the political debate on refugees. i very much welcome the point that mr timmermans raised, which is that we have to have a sense of urgency. while the media spotlight understandably is on the conflict in syria, we are entering the winter period and those of us on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs understand what that means: it means deaths, both in the mediterranean and on land, in the corridors, and it will mean a crisis. i put it to the council that they should really review the civil protection mechanism and that they should regard this as an urgent consideration. and i say to the commission and to vice-president timmermans that we really need to think not just about the politics of the relocation mechanism but also about how we will deal properly with the question of the roadmap towards the hotspots. this will be the test of whether the commission is doing the right thing, and of whether we are working together on proper solutions that will be visible to our citizens in the european union.
mr president, this migration crisis has become the biggest political issue of recent times. accordingly, we must clarify all the factors to ensure that the best solution is found for both eu citizens and the migrants themselves. the problem is further compounded by ambiguous claims made by saudi arabian officials at last week’s committee on foreign affairs (afet) meeting, when they suggested that saudi arabia is taking in 2.5 million refugees. matters are not helped by the fact that saudi arabia has not signed the 1951 un convention on refugees. according to my maths, this claim does not add up. bearing in mind the number of people already in both syria and unhcr registered camps, my estimates show an unaccounted figure of around 1 to 1.5 million people, many of whom will, of course, already be in further transit to europe. the gulf states must rise to the challenge and work with the rest of the world towards a favourable and lasting result. it is therefore essential that all un members sign up to the 1951 convention so that we can properly assess the situation.
in writing.– the current humanitarian crisis is unprecedented; the numbers of refugees is increasing daily and is unparalleled in recent times. the complexity of the issue unfortunately gives little hope that the situation will improve in the near future. the russian intervention is likely to make the issue prolonged and worse in syria. we have to redouble our efforts to deal with the root causes. recently, i visited refugee camps in serbia, jordan, lebanon and iraq. people are desperate to get to europe. during the summer months the influx has surged and new migration routes have emerged, creating even bigger challenges for europe. for the security of our citizens, as well as incoming refugees, the proper management and control of our external borders is paramount. the burden of this crisis must be shared. europe must stand together in solidarity and unity committed to its values. i welcome the eu plans to assist the affected countries and also plans to assist the overstretched and underfunded unhcr and the world food programme agencies. these new incentives will not end the crisis, but they are all necessary steps in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that the uk government intends to ratify this convention anyway and therefore feels there is no need for eu supervision or authority over this ratification process. therefore we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it was a single-vote consent report in which parliament gave its consent for member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention against forced labour. the protocol is positive and necessary and outlines strong steps that need to be taken in order to combat human trafficking and forced labour, and it is a response to the fact that while most member states have ratified the convention, forced labour still exists across the eu. the protocol specifically addresses the gaps in cooperation by crime agencies in combating cross-border human trafficking. as some aspects of the protocol fall under eu competence, parliament is required to authorise member states to ratify it and the report urges them to do so by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ this vote presents the usual dilemma for ukip meps: on the one hand, we support the principle of international cooperation in pursuit of laudable goals such as the prevention of forced labour. on the other hand, we believe that there are two appropriate vehicles for such cooperation i.e. the united nations and bilateral agreements between governments. such bilateral agreements work well. indeed, their first known usage for extradition dates back to the 13th century bc. the european union has at best a questionable track record at achieving its stated aims in this regard. for that reason, i considered it appropriate to abstain overall.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that the uk government intends to ratify this convention anyway and therefore feels there is no need for eu supervision or authority over this ratification process. therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that the uk government intends to ratify this convention anyway and therefore feels there is no need for eu supervision or authority over this ratification process. therefore we abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely right that as legislators we take every step possible to stamp out the scourge of forced labour in societies across europe. far too often this parliament debates issues for which they should have no say and no authority. however crimes such as modern slavery, human trafficking and sexual exploitation are now inextricably linked to free movement and therefore our solutions must too transcend our nation’s borders. i am proud to be able to say that the regions of the united kingdom have already brought forward legislation with measures that bring full compliance with the new protocol to this convention. my party colleague, lord morrow, has fought with great passion and determination to bring about the northern ireland human trafficking and exploitation act which strengthens this provision and refocuses how we combat these crimes from the victims to those that feed the crime gangs responsible. europe could learn much from this strategy. separate work to tighten the framework has been witnessed in england, wales and scotland too. but this is not something that we should simply tick off as a job well done. the gangs that lead these abuses are ever evolving and so too should the solutions aimed at stopping them.
in writing. ‒ it is the 21st century, yet 21 million people are still performing forced labour. they are modern slaves, generating usd 150 billion for the criminal networks that exploit them on an annual basis. this has to end. that is why i voted in favour of this recommendation authorising member states to open negotiations on the ilo’s 2014 protocol on the forced labour convention. we need new tools and resources for combating forced labour. but most vital will be coordination amongst member states. we will only be able to eradicate slavery and stop the exploitation of workers which is undercutting the wages of others, if all eu member states stand united behind strong measures, so we can finally make slavery history.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as it simply confirms parliament’s consent and represents parliament’s position on a draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention of the international labour organization.
in writing. ‒ despite the passing of 85 years since the forced labour convention was signed, people trafficking and forced labour remain all too common. this protocol will help in the battle against these crimes and i was happy to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. the eu too frequently ‘thinks’ it can or should make decisions that are within a sovereign nation’s jurisdiction. this is the case here.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the report authorising member states to ratify the protocol to the ilo forced labour convention, as this is an international convention which seeks to enhance the protection of workers and tackle forced or compulsory labour.
in writing. ‒ the forced labour convention is one of the ilo’s eight fundamental conventions that make up the core international labour standards, and it is considered a human rights instrument. in adopting the convention in 1930, the international labour conference called upon states to end the use of forced labour within the shortest possible period and to criminalise the offence. yet, more than 80 years later, the ilo estimates that globally at least 20.9 million people are victims of forced labour. the protocol seeks to address gaps in implementation and to make progress on preventing trafficking for labour exploitation, as well as protecting and compensating victims of forced labour. the protocol requires ilo member states to develop a national policy and plan of action for the effective and sustained suppression of forced labour and to take measures to apply the protocol’s provisions, in consultation with employers’ and workers’ organisations. it also sets out the measures that ilo member states must take to prevent forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which simply confirms parliament’s consent and represents parliament’s position on a draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention of the international labour organization. articles 1-4 of the protocol touch on matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and thus require the eu to authorise member states to ratify it. this is an international convention which seeks to enhance the protection of workers and tackle forced or compulsory labour.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i believe this is not an eu competency but instead should be done by nation-state governments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. because this is an international convention which seeks to improve workers’ protection and tackle forced or compulsory labour, it is something which i completely support. this report simply confirms that the european parliament gives its consent to the draft decision.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i am on record as supporting a ban on so-called legal highs in the united kingdom. nevertheless, there are two problems here. firstly, it is inappropriate for this matter to be dealt with at european level. drug policy should always remain firmly within the domain of the member states. for example, portugal and the netherlands have a much more liberal stance than many in the uk would be happy to adopt. that is a matter for the national governments, and this resolution is in effect a backdoor means of handing power to the european union. secondly, individual substance bans are an ineffective tool: changing from one substance to another of similar chemical composition is too easy. overarching legislation, rather than individually referencing chemicals, is what is needed. so, although i support the general principle, i felt that i must abstain on these votes.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the steps endorsed by this report and its sister report which would result in some of the most lethal psychoactive substances – or legal highs – being closer regulated or banned altogether. in my constituency, northern ireland, there has been a spate of recent deaths, particularly among young people, caused exclusively by this scourge. earlier this year, a case brought by belfast city council resulted in the conviction of three individuals who had failed to comply with safety regulations in the sale of these substances. while this outcome was sadly too late for many who had paid the ultimate price of the damage wrought by these drugs, the verdict was the first of its kind in the united kingdom. i hope that it acts as a deterrent and sends a message that preying on those who are vulnerable to these influences must end. however, prosecuting in line with the current controls on these products cannot be enough. stricter regulation or outright bans must be brought forward, and i and my party will continue to lead this fight in every aspect of our representation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the risk assessment report reveals that there is limited scientific evidence available on the characteristics and risks of 4-methylamphetamine and points out that further studies are required on the overall health and social risks associated with the substance. however, and as a result of the health risks it poses, the council decision proposes that it should be subjected to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as the proposal aims to invite the member states to subject new psychoactive substances to control measures across the eu. the substance 4-methylamphetamine is a synthetic derivative of amphetamine which has emerged on the illicit amphetamine market. so far there have been 21 fatalities in four member states which have been attributed to the drug. given the health risk posed by it, i agree with the council decision which proposes that it should be subjected to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on subjecting 4—methylamphetamines to control measures as there are still debates about legal highs and recreational drugs. these matters are not competencies of the eu and should be decided at nation-state level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. there have been a total of 21 fatalities registered in four member states associated with the new psychoactive substance. the risk assessment report reveals that there is limited scientific evidence available on the substance and points out that further studies are required on the overall health and social risks associated with the substance. however, and as a result of the health risks it poses, i agree that it should be subjected to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report implementing the decision on subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which supports efforts to collectively tackle the sale of legal highs which have caused a number of death and fatalities in the uk and across europe. moreover, the information available suggests that some of the psychoactive substances such as 4-methylamphetamine are produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups that are involved in the manufacture and trafficking of amphetamine. trafficking occurs across borders and it is essential that member states work together to disrupt the eu’s trafficking networks.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i believe this matter is not an eu competency but instead should be addressed by nation-state governments.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the health risks that 4—methylamphetamine poses, and i agree with the council decision to subject it to control measures across the union in order better to serve the interests of the citizens of not only the west midlands but also the rest of the european union.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i am on record as supporting a ban on so-called legal highs in the united kingdom. nevertheless, there are two problems here. firstly, it is inappropriate for this matter to be dealt with at european level. drug policy should always remain firmly within the domain of the member states. for example, portugal and the netherlands have a much more liberal stance than many in the uk would be happy to adopt. that is a matter for the national governments, and this resolution is in effect a backdoor means of handing power to the european union. secondly, individual substance bans are an ineffective tool: changing from one substance to another of similar chemical composition is too easy. overarching legislation, rather than individually referencing chemicals, is what is needed. so, although i support the general principle, i felt that i must abstain on these votes.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to invite the member states to subject the new psychoactive substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole to control measures across the european union. the substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole is commercially available on the internet and from ‘head shops’, marketed as a ‘research chemical’. there were a total of 24 fatalities registered in four member states from april to august 2012. that is why it is vital that the substance is subjected to control measures across the european union.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as it calls on member states to subject a new psychoactive substance 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole to control measures across the eu. this substance is commercially available on the internet and from ‘head shops’ and has been attributed to 24 fatalities registered in four member states. given the health risk posed by it, i agree that it should be subjected to control measures in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on subjecting 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole to control measures as there are still debates about legal highs and recreational drugs. these matters are not competencies of the eu and should be decided at nation-state level.
in writing. ‒ there have been a total of 24 fatalities registered in four member states associated with the new psychoactive substance. the available evidence and information and the result of the health risks that it poses recommend that these substances should be subjected to control measures across the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report implementing the decision on subjecting 5-(2-aminopropyl)indole to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which supports efforts to collectively tackle the sale of legal highs which have caused a number of death and fatalities in the uk and across europe. moreover, the information available suggests that some of the psychoactive substances such as 4-methylamphetamine are produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups that are involved in the manufacture and trafficking of amphetamine. trafficking occurs across borders and it is essential that member states work together to disrupt the eu’s trafficking networks.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i believe this matter is not an eu competency but instead should be addressed by nation-state governments.
in writing. ‒ the existing information regarding this substance suggests that there are severe adverse effects provoked by the consumption of it. for the safety of my constituents, i believe that bringing this drug under the control measures proposed here will better protect citizens from its harmful effects.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i am on record as supporting a ban on so-called legal highs in the united kingdom. nevertheless, there are two problems here. firstly, it is inappropriate for this matter to be dealt with at european level. drug policy should always remain firmly within the domain of the member states. for example, portugal and the netherlands have a much more liberal stance than many in the uk would be happy to adopt. that is a matter for the national governments, and this resolution is in effect a backdoor means of handing power to the european union. secondly, individual substance bans are an ineffective tool: changing from one substance to another of similar chemical composition is too easy. overarching legislation, rather than individually referencing chemicals, is what is needed. so, although i support the general principle, i felt that i must abstain on these votes.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to invite the member states to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures across the european union, given the health risks connected to these substances.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as it concerns substances which pose a risk to public safety. the substances known as 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine have been linked to a number of deaths across the eu and i agree that they should be subject to control measures and criminal sanctions at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on subjecting 251-nbome, ah-7921,mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures as there are still debates on legal highs within recreational drugs. these are not the competencies of the eu and should be decided at nation-state level.
in writing. ‒ there have been a large number of fatalities registered across the eu associated with the four new psychoactive substances. the available evidence and information and the result of the health risks that they pose recommend that these substances should be subjected to control measures across the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report implementing the decision on subjecting the following to control measures: 4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxy—n-(2-methoxybenzyl)phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro—n-[[1-(dimethylamino)cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4—methylenedioxypyrovalerone (mdpv) and 2-(3-methoxyphenyl)-2—(ethylamino)cyclohexanone (methoxetamine).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which supports efforts to collectively tackle the sale of legal highs which have caused a number of death and fatalities in the uk and across europe. moreover, the information available suggests that some of the psychoactive substances such as 4-methylamphetamine are produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups that are involved in the manufacture and trafficking of amphetamine. trafficking occurs across borders and it is essential that member states work together to disrupt the eu’s trafficking networks.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i believe this is not an eu competency but instead should be done by nation-state governments.
in writing. ‒ considering the casualties to these substances, i do not believe that it is right that i would not do what i can, with the legislative responsibility that my constituents have given me. these substances should be brought under control measures to have a chance of protecting european citizens from the harmful and damaging effects of these substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to subject 251-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures across the european union. at least three member states have recorded fatalities as a result of consumption of each of these substances and so intervention is necessary.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported placing these substances under control measures as considerable research conducted by the emcdda shows clearly that these chemical substances merit control. they have been directly responsible for a number of deaths and intoxications across the european union and are legally marketed as substitutes for either research chemicals or illegal substances. it is essential that they are controlled in an eu context to prevent them gaining a foothold in the market (illicit or legal) and to prevent distributors preying on legislative discrepancies between member states.
in writing. ‒ i am on record as supporting a ban on so-called ‘legal highs’ in the uk. nevertheless, there are two problems here. firstly, it is inappropriate for this matter to be dealt with at eu level. drug policy should always remain firmly within the domain of the member states. for example, portugal and the netherlands have a much more liberal stance than many in the united kingdom would be happy to adopt. that is a matter for the national governments and this resolution is in effect a backdoor means of handing power to the european union. secondly, individual substance bans are an ineffective tool; changing from one substance to another of similar chemical composition is too easy. overarching legislation, rather than individually referencing chemicals, is what is needed. so although i support the general principle, i felt that i must abstain on these votes.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ there were four reports on the subject of drugs today. ukip notes two things; firstly, that the uk has an opt-out in this area. secondly, we note that the uk government already has very sensible laws and controls in place in the fields of drugs and public health. therefore, we chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to invite the member states to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures across the european union, given the health risks connected to these substances.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as it concerns substances which are a threat to public safety. the substances 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 are synthetic stimulants which have been linked to a number of deaths in the eu. they have been mis-sold on the illicit market as ecstasy and amphetamines. given the risk to health involved, i support measures for these substances to be controlled at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on subjecting 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures as there are still debates on legal highs within recreational drugs. these are not the competencies of the eu and should be decided at nation-state level.
in writing. ‒ there have been 31 deaths associated with this substance registered in three member states. however, the evidence and information currently available and the results of the health risks that they pose recommend that it should be subjected to control measures. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report implementing the decision on subjecting 4-methyl-5-(4-methylphenyl)-4,5-dihydrooxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4-(1,2-diphenylethyl)piperazine (mt-45) to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which supports efforts to collectively tackle the sale of legal highs which have caused a number of death and fatalities in the uk and across europe. moreover, the information available suggests that some of the psychoactive substances such as 4-methylamphetamine are produced and distributed by the same organised crime groups that are involved in the manufacture and trafficking of amphetamine. trafficking occurs across borders and it is essential that member states work together to disrupt the eu’s trafficking networks.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i believe this is not an eu competency but instead should be done by nation-state governments.
in writing. ‒ as these substances have become better understood and the harmful effects from human consumption have become better known it is important that these two substances be subjected to control measures across the union.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this due to the fact that the eu is looking to mobilise eur 16 274 765 for bulgaria and greece due to flooding that took place early in 2015. public sector and infrastructure damage is at the centre of attention relating to the claim, while private sector damage is left to the insurance companies to deal with. there have been no reports made available relating to assessment or loss adjusters from both nations. we do not know what criteria has been met to make this claim or if the validity or reliability of this claim has been stretched and challenged by the eu. it is obvious that the existing infrastructure was not prepared to handle flooding and this opportunity could contribute towards development of the infrastructure in certain places. however it is a small amount in comparison to what bulgaria has claimed in terms of financial damage, which is estimated at eur 239 million and as for greece it is estimated at nearly eur 400 million. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for increased efforts and funding to assist areas of greece and bulgaria that were adversely impacted by severe climatic conditions in early 2015. due to these situations the governments of these countries applied to the european solidarity fund. eur 16 274 765 will be mobilised under the european solidarity fund to cover the cost of recovery operations in both countries, as both cases match the european solidarity fund’s criteria. bulgaria was adversely affected by severe winter weather which included heavy rainfall, snow, floods and landslides. immense damage was done to public infrastructure, communication and transport networks, enterprise and residential areas, not to mention the agricultural sector and forests. in greece there was a similar situation with major flooding and consequently significant damage to infrastructure, especially water supplies and sewage systems, public buildings, residential areas and businesses. the impact on greek agriculture saw the destruction of farming infrastructure, warehouses and crops. the report garnered the support of 95 % of meps without any amendments or objections being made. the aid will reimburse expenses incurred in recovery and reinforcement works after the natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these matters should not be funded by the european union. administration costs mean that the whole is, in fact, less than the sum of its parts and the amounts of money requested are too small for there to be any macroeconomic justification. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of bulgaria and greece, but i am not best placed to judge. the eu solidarity fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ ukip are voting against this due to the fact that the eu is looking to mobilise eur 16,274,765 for bulgaria and greece due to flooding that took place early in 2015. public sector and infrastructure damage is at the centre of attention relating to the claim. whereas, private sector damage is left to the insurance companies to deal with. there have been no reports made available relating to assessment or loss adjusters from both nations. we do not know what criteria has been met to make this claim or if the validity or reliability of this claim has been stretched and challenged by the eu. it is obvious that the existing infrastructure was not prepared to handle flooding and this opportunity could contribute towards the development of the infrastructure in certain places, however it is a small amount in comparison to what bulgaria has claimed in terms of financial damage, which is estimated at eur 239 million and as for greece it is estimated at nearly eur 400 million. hence, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against this due to the fact that the eu is looking to mobilise eur 16,274,765 for bulgaria and greece due to flooding that took place early in 2015. public sector and infrastructure damage is at the centre of attention relating to the claim. whereas, private sector damage is left to the insurance companies to deal with. there have been no reports made available relating to assessment or loss adjusters from both nations. we do not know what criteria has been met to make this claim or if the validity or reliability of this claim has been stretched and challenged by the eu. it is obvious that the existing infrastructure was not prepared to handle flooding and this opportunity could contribute towards the development of the infrastructure in certain places, however it is a small amount in comparison to what bulgaria has claimed in terms of financial damage, which is estimated at eur 239 million and as for greece it is estimated at nearly eur 400 million. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity) to provide assistance to bulgaria (severe winter conditions) and greece (flooding in evros and central greece).
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as it concerns the european union solidarity fund, which is emergency financial aid which can be used by member states following disasters in their countries to help to rebuild basic infrastructure, fund emergency services, fund temporary accommodation and assist with clean-up operations. it does not entail the use of additional appropriations and instead the full amount for the fund will be financed through the reallocation of the available appropriations for advances in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i strongly support giving assistance to regions affected by major natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to grant financial assistance relating to a disaster in bulgaria (severe winter conditions causing a disaster classified under the eusf as a “major natural disaster”) and two disasters in greece (flooding in evros and central greece, classified under the eusf as “regional disasters”) that occurred in early 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which will assist greece and bulgaria in rebuilding basic infrastructure, fund emergency services, temporary accommodation, clean-up operations or counter immediate health risks.
in writing. ‒ while i understand that this is for aid, which could be used to help victims, the british public are already more than generous with donating funds to charitable causes when natural disasters occur. i do not believe foreign aid to be within the remit of the eu, so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european union’s solidarity fund is an emergency financial aid following disasters in member states or candidate countries. both bulgaria and greece have submitted applications to mobilise the fund: bulgaria for severe winter conditions and greece has submitted two applications for flooding. i voted in favour of this reasonable request and i am delighted to see that many others joined me in this show of solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of bulgaria's application to mobilise the fund (concerning severe winter conditions) and both of greece's applications to mobilise the fund (concerning floods). this aid can be used by bulgaria and greece to rebuild their respective basic infrastructure, fund emergency services, provide temporary accommodation, fund clean-up operations and counter immediate health risks.
madam president, i would like to congratulate virginie rozière on a fantastic result, and 608 votes in this parliament have backed the principle of extending geographical indication to non-food products. i represent scotland in this parliament and it is absolutely important for some of our most peripheral areas in the european union that products like harris tweed and scottish tartan have this extension of protection. we live in a more globalised world where there are more challenges in terms of property rights and ownership. i think that we all can be very grateful to virginie rozière’s report for what we have done today as a parliament, but also to the fact that the majority – the vast majority of people in this chamber – backed the extension of geographical indication to non-agricultural products. the challenge now is: what will the commission come forward with and what will the council support? so now the pressure is on the commission and the member states to take forward what we have done today.
madam president, the creation of an eu-wide system of protection of geographical indications has already proved its vital importance for many of our agricultural products. now it is vital that we extend it to include authentic local products. the fact is that we have a fragmented situation where some member states offer no protection, while others have widely differing definitions. this will mean there is a clear and strong legal framework for protecting our local producers, and that is why today i voted in favour of the extension of the geographical indications to non-agricultural products. my region of the west midlands houses world-renowned china products, like wedgewood, steelite, royal worcester and spode in stoke-on-trent. i call on the commission to take strong measures to make sure that authentic products from the potteries can no longer be priced out of the market by cheap knock-offs. they are a crucial part of my region’s heritage, and i urge the commission to ensure they receive proper protection.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes that the european commission brings forward a legislative proposal to create a system of geographical indication protection for non-agricultural products similar to the system already extant for agricultural products such as wine and cheese. the uk independence party voted against this proposal because as a matter of principle it is against the eu having the power to legislate so as to make laws binding on the united kingdom. furthermore this proposal is likely to produce a significant regulatory burden on producers, create a large and expensive bureaucracy to service the system. in addition it is wholly unclear how this ill-thought out proposal will interact with existing bodies of law such as copyright, trade marks, patents and other protection for intellectual property.
in writing. ‒ i remain to be convinced that the extension of geographical indication protection would be positive for the economy. it has various potential drawbacks: 1. it provides barriers for entry of new businesses into a market; 2. it narrows competition and therefore consumer choice; 3. it fixes capital within a narrow geographical area. in addition to the above, such decisions should be taken at national level not at eu level. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes that the european commission brings forward a legislative proposal to create a system of geographical indication protection for non-agricultural products similar to the system already extant for agricultural products such as wine and cheese. the uk independence party voted against this proposal because as a matter of principle it is against the eu having the power to legislate so as to make laws binding on the united kingdom. furthermore this proposal is likely to produce a significant regulatory burden on producers, create a large and expensive bureaucracy to service the system. in addition it is wholly unclear how this ill-thought out proposal will interact with existing bodies of law such as copyright, trade marks, patents and other protection for intellectual property.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes that the european commission brings forward a legislative proposal to create a system of geographical indication protection for non-agricultural products similar to the system already extant for agricultural products such as wine and cheese. the uk independence party voted against this proposal because as a matter of principle it is against the eu having the power to legislate so as to make laws binding on the united kingdom. furthermore this proposal is likely to produce a significant regulatory burden on producers, create a large and expensive bureaucracy to service the system. in addition it is wholly unclear how this ill-thought out proposal will interact with existing bodies of law such as copyright, trade marks, patents and other protection for intellectual property.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party i voted in favour of this report as it will protect both industries producing authentic local goods and consumers. it will make it harder for factories to pass off cheap knock-offs in the place of much-loved originals. great british products like traditional cumberland sausages and beacon fell traditional lancashire cheese are already protected under a geographical protection scheme and this report would seek to extend protection like this to non-agricultural products. this means scottish tartan, west midlands ceramics and clipsham limestone would be able to apply for similar geographical protection which would then be recognised across the eu.
in writing. ‒ we all appreciate that when you buy a glass of champagne, you expect it to come from that region. agricultural products in the eu are given this protection yet this is not currently the case for non-agricultural products like scottish tartan or staffordshire pottery. i voted for this report, along with my socialist colleagues, to send a strong message to the commission that it should put forward legislation to correct this anomaly. this would be a real step forward for consumers, manufacturers and local regions. crucially, it will help protect local jobs and could boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ the various pieces of eu legislation which protect geographical indications for food and drink have been a huge success story. whilst the eu often tends towards harmonisation, geographical indications do the opposite and help protect europe's cultural variety and diversity. the possibilities of extending gis to non-agricultural products are exciting and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report calling to extend geographical protection for authentic, original regional products. this is good news for consumers and industries that are producing authentic local goods, and will make it harder for factories half way round the world to pass off cheap knock offs as originals.
in writing. ‒ the campaign to extend gi protection to non-agricultural products will make it harder for factories half way round the world to trade on the value and reputation of great scottish products like scottish tartan or harris tweed. i want to see these products being able to apply for the same geographical protection as stornoway black pudding and arbroath smokies. the european system for gis on agricultural products has brought tangible benefits for scottish producers and a quality guarantee for consumers. these are measures where the strength of the eu can give robust protection for authentic and traditional scottish products abroad, boost production and protect scottish jobs. it would also enable the eu to enjoy the same protection for such products outside the eu in the framework of international trade negotiations. it is now for the european commission to take up the case, and i hope it will make the proposals soon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is an important step in seeing gi extended to non-agricultural products such as scottish tartan, harris tweed, london’s saville row bespoke tailoring, stoke ceramics, yorkshire stone will have the same gi protection as agriculture products like melton mowbray pies, cornish pasties, wensleydale cheese, lincolnshire sausage, arbroath smokies. this will protect, preserve and develop a positive future for these products and the highly skilled jobs that the industry offers. this is great news for consumers and for the protection of our industries that are producing authentic local goods, and will make it harder for factories to pass off cheap knock offs as originals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not believe this to be an eu competency.
in writing. ‒ i want to thank ms rozière for the excellent work that she has put into this report and i want to join her in pressuring the commission to come up with a proposal for a unified system of protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. the commission appears to be reluctant to make a proposal and i want to join other meps in sending an important signal from parliament as to our position and hopefully get the commission to take action.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report, urging the commission to come up with a proposal for a unified system of protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, similar to the one already existing for agricultural products. i am firmly in favour of the proposed system of european-wide registration and uniform protection and guarantees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. wales has a rich history of traditional industries and crafts, and in our agricultural sector we have already benefitted from being able to demonstrate clearly to consumers the quality of produce from wales. i welcome initiatives that support our traditional producers of non-agricultural goods and enable them to showcase the authenticity of their products to as many consumers as possible. looking beyond the adoption of this report, it is important that any future system for geographical indication for non-agricultural produce is well thought through, with careful prior evaluation and consideration given to the cost implications and the impacts for producers and consumers. we must ensure that costs and red tape for businesses are kept to a minimum.
in writing. ‒ geographical indication can be an important indicator of both heritage and quality for many products. it is important that we extend to non-agricultural products the same protections that consumers already enjoy in relation to agricultural products. if a product is associated with a certain region or area then the consumer should be allowed to purchase with the confidence that this is in fact a correct and accurate portrayal. furthermore, this protects businesses that rely on the production of certain materials that are associated with an area, often drawing on long tradition and practice to provide good quality for those who purchase their goods. i was proud to vote in favour of these common sense protections for both businesses and consumers.
in writing. ‒ this vote is the next step in efforts to extend geographical indication protection for authentic local products. it is great news for consumers and for our industries that are producing authentic local goods, and will make it harder for factories to pass off cheap knock offs as originals. this means original regional products could have the same protection as authentic regional food like melton mowbray pork pies.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejected this report because receiving financing from the eu at an earlier date will not correct the greece's liquidity problems. the eu should allow and accommodate greece to leave the eurozone if they so desire. by allowing greece to leave the eurozone they could devalue their currency and default on imf and troika loans. this would be a much more prudent method for recovery in the medium and long term compared to only short term finance that only answers immediate liquidity issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which changes the structural funds regulation and investments to allow advance structural fund payment, and to facilitate pre-financing and co-financing, to greece. this amendment offers a brief and minor relief to greece's economy, allowing it to quickly access these vital funds. tighter financing conditions, as well as economic uncertainties in recent months, have caused liquidity problems, disrupting investment programs and the ability of the greek authorities to fully utilise the available eu funds. the greek economy is in urgent need of a cash injection, as funds for public investment to revive the economy are lacking. this means that greece is less able to co-finance this policy, and many projects may not be completed. the resolution is also urgent because if greece does not use the funds still available under the 2007 – 2013 funding period before the end of 2015, these funds will be lost, and greece will miss out on about 2 billion euros for much-needed projects and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i note that the efdd amendments to this report failed, although they were simple common sense. we pointed out that eu-imposed austerity had had a negative impact upon the greek economy. we suggested that greece should be allowed to leave the euro area; this failed too. the whole report is a bad report and we could not support it.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejected this report because receiving financing from the eu at an earlier date will not correct the greece's liquidity problems. the eu should allow and accommodate greece to leave the eurozone if they so desire. by allowing greece to leave the eurozone they could devalue their currency and default on imf and troika loans. this would be a much more prudent method for recovery in the medium and long term compared to only short term finance that only answers immediate liquidity issues.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejected this report because receiving financing from the eu at an earlier date will not correct the greece's liquidity problems. the eu should allow and accommodate greece to leave the eurozone if they so desire. by allowing greece to leave the eurozone they could devalue their currency and default on imf and troika loans. this would be a much more prudent method for recovery in the medium and long term compared to only short term finance that only answers immediate liquidity issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report since the availability of these funds has already been guaranteed and has no impact on the budget. in this unique circumstance i welcome the help that the eu can give to greece. the eu's main focus should be the creation of jobs and growth for the citizens of greece. i am glad to see the quick reaction of the parliament on this matter.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report, given greece has been very much affected by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis and consequently is in difficulties to co-finance the investments of european structural and investment funds. the modification moreover does not imply any changes in the multiannual financial framework annual ceilings for commitments and payments. the proposal consists of frontloading payment appropriations and is budgetary neutral over the 2014-2020 period.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as greece has been very affected by the consequences of the on-going financial and economic crisis. greece is currently in difficulties when it comes to co-financing eu investments such as european structural and investment funds. the modification does not imply any changes in the eu budget's annual ceilings for commitments and payments. instead, the plan will mean frontloading payment appropriations. in this sense it is budgetary neutral over the 2014-2020 period.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis in greece has hit real people who were utterly blameless in the global collapse of financial institutions. these proposed measures are to be welcomed and it is essential that the funds become available at the earliest possible opportunity. i therefore voted in favour of this report under the simplified procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the proposed modification does not imply any changes in the multiannual financial framework annual ceilings for commitments and payments, however, given the urgent support needed in greece, it ensures that the available eu funding is effectively used for investments on the ground and reaches beneficiaries as rapidly as possible.
in writing. ‒ the ecr recognises the serious economic situation faced by greece and its unique liquidity crisis. we therefore voted in favour of a commission proposal to address this through the front-loading of regional development funds already allocated to greece to provide rapid investment and support jobs and growth. this measure is limited to greece alone, will not impact on other member states and does not entail any new money during the current multiannual financial framework. increased payments in 2015 and 2016 will be offset within the current financial period so that no increase to the agreed budget is necessary. all of which means no additional money from european taxpayers, simply the release of resources already allocated. this measure is not about the future of greece, the future of regional development funding or about the migration crisis. a change in approach to all these is clearly needed. engaging with the amendments proposed by other political groups – whatever their individual merits – risked slowing down the legislative process significantly and the issues they raise are simply too big to be debated in any appropriate sense within this very specific proposal. we therefore voted against all amendments to this report.
in writing. ‒ greece has been very much affected by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. it faces a critical lack of public funds and consequently is in difficulties to co-finance the investments of european structural and investment funds. i voted in favour of the report as it does not imply any changes in the multiannual financial framework annual ceilings for commitments and payments. the proposal consists of frontloading payment appropriations and is budgetary neutral over the 2014-2020 period. it also proposes to provide an additional initial pre-financing for 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and for programmes financed from the emff in greece.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as it calls for the commission to create new legislation. i do not recognise the commission as a legislative body.
in writing. ‒ greece has been affected quite severely by the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. with a lack of public funds and, as a result, its difficulties – if not inability – to co-finance the investments of the esi funds, it is particularly important to provide this support. i voted in favour of this report, through the simplified procedure, to get the funds where they are most needed without unnecessary delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, proposing to increase the level of initial pre-financing of the funding available for the 2014-2020 period for cohesion policy programmes. this will ensure that the available eu funding is used effectively in greece, and will reach the intended beneficiaries quickly.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to de/adam opel. the total budget for egf for the period 2014 - 20 is eur 1.05 billion. germany has applied for eur 6 958 625 to deal with 2692 redundancies. the blame factor is aimed at emerging markets and competitiveness in the world market. small car sales have dropped by 25% from 2007/13 in efta nations. personalised services such as careers advice and mobilisation have been mentioned relating to seeking other jobs. there is also a mention of business start-up grants to be given to the beneficiaries. the matter of concern relates to contracting out the personalised services, organisations that provide aid to those who have been made redundant are already in receipt of funding from other funding streams such as the esf. if this is the factual case then why is the eu happily granting more funding to opel? companies that are not competitive enough must not seek a bailout from the taxpayer to pay for redundancies. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the german car manufacturing company adam-opel. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation or the global financial crisis. in germany, 2 881 workers were dismissed in adam opel ag and one supplier as a result of the over-capacity caused by the sharp decline in car sales arising from the global financial crisis. the social partners established a 'transfer company' to formally employ the workers for one year, and this report states that adam-opel will use the maximum 35% of the egf funds allowed to pay the salaries of the workers in the transfer company (as a 'training allowance'). i have concerns with the way in which some german companies have used the egf in this way, as i believe it is the responsibility of the company itself to meet these costs, and the egf should be used to provide additional support. despite this concern i support the dismissed workers receiving the benefits associated with the mobilisation of the egf, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of germany, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to de/adam opel. the total budget for egf for the period 2014 - 20 is eur 1.05 billion. germany has applied for eur 6 958 625 to deal with 2692 redundancies. the blame factor is aimed at emerging markets and competitiveness in the world market. small car sales have dropped by 25% from 2007/13 in efta nations. personalised services such as careers advice and mobilisation have been mentioned relating to seeking other jobs. there is also a mention of business start-up grants to be given to the beneficiaries. the matter of concern relates to contracting out the personalised services, organisations that provide aid to those who have been made redundant are already in receipt of funding from other funding streams such as the esf. if this is the factual case then why is the eu happily granting more funding to opel? companies that are not competitive enough must not seek a bailout from the taxpayer to pay for redundancies. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to de/adam opel. the total budget for egf for the period 2014 - 20 is eur 1.05 billion. germany has applied for eur 6 958 625 to deal with 2692 redundancies. the blame factor is aimed at emerging markets and competitiveness in the world market. small car sales have dropped by 25% from 2007/13 in efta nations. personalised services such as careers advice and mobilisation have been mentioned relating to seeking other jobs. there is also a mention of business start-up grants to be given to the beneficiaries. the matter of concern relates to contracting out the personalised services, organisations that provide aid to those who have been made redundant are already in receipt of funding from other funding streams such as the esf. if this is the factual case then why is the eu happily granting more funding to opel? companies that are not competitive enough must not seek a bailout from the taxpayer to pay for redundancies. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this case of the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as i am concerned it could be used to finance the member state's obligations. it would therefore not be an appropriate use of the fund. it is vital to my constituents in wales that we ensure that the european union is as transparent and as accountable as possible, and that resources are allocated strictly on the basis of need. i regret that the uk government does not allow access to this fund for communities in need in wales.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for adam opel ag, manufacturer of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, in order to ensure support is provided to employees of the company who lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new global financial and economic crisis. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. all too often, as repeated here, the eu is the cause and the problem and then tries to mollify the impact with financial help.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i support this proposal for the mobilisation of the egf in favour of germany to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in adam opel ag.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, e.g. when a large company shuts down or production is moved outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. labour meps have consistently supported egf applications, moreover it is worth noting that opportunities for the uk to claim from this fund may arise in the near future and the egf could help those made redundant and wider communities affected by large shocks to the local economy. it is also worth noting the egf can do this whilst minimising the cost to the uk government.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, because i do not believe that this is a competency of the eu. germany is an incredibly wealthy country and they should handle their own affairs with german taxpayers’ money, not eu tax money. furthermore, the uk does not benefit from this globalisation fund.
in writing. ‒ i have consistently supported egf applications and there is no reason to change my position for this application from adam opel. germany’s decision to submit this application is perfectly legitimate and in line with what i see as an appropriate mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this german application for a financial contribution from the egf following 2881 redundancies in adam opel ag. germany intends to use the funds to finance a series of measures intended to assist the redundant workers in finding another job, retraining or setting up their own business.
in writing. ‒ i fully support measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do i believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to be/ford genk. the total budget for egf for the period 2014-20 is eur 1.05 billion. belgium has applied eur 6 258 654 to deal with a total of 5 111 redundancies. the money is needed to deal with re-training and job search. personalised services will be accessed through contractors who have managed to get esf funding. there is an element of mobilisation within the member states to access employment. the blame factor is aimed at china and the decrease in demand for large passenger cars. 14.6% decrease in demand for these cars in the eu. if it is the case that ford cannot keep up with competition and innovation from emerging markets then the tax payer is not obliged to bail this company out from redundancy expenditure. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in the belgian car manufacturing industry. the egf can be mobilised to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in this case, 5,111 workers were dismissed at the ford genk car plant and 11 suppliers and downstream producers in belgium in 2014. the dismissals were partly as a result of the loss of market share for the eu automotive industry over the past decade due to the geographical shift in consumption linked to globalisation. i voted in favour of mobilising the fund in order to provide valuable practical assistance to these dismissed workers in job-search and training services.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of belgium, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to be/ford genk. the total budget for egf for the period 2014-20 is eur 1.05 billionbelgium has applied eur 6 258 654 to deal with a total of 5111 redundancies. the money is needed to deal with re-training and job search. personalised services will be accessed through contractors who have managed to get esf funding. there is an element of mobilisation within the member states to access employment. the blame factor is aimed at china and the decrease in demand for large passenger cars. 14.6% decrease in demand for these cars in the eu. if it is the case that ford cannot keep up with competition and innovation from emerging markets then the tax payer is not obliged to bail this company out from redundancy expenditure. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to be/ford genk. the total budget for egf for the period 2014-20 is eur 1.05 billion. belgium has applied eur 6 258 654 to deal with a total of 5 111 redundancies. the money is needed to deal with re-training and job search. personalised services will be accessed through contractors who have managed to get esf funding. there is an element of mobilisation within the member states to access employment. the blame factor is aimed at china and the decrease in demand for large passenger cars. 14.6% decrease in demand for these cars in the eu. if it is the case that ford cannot keep up with competition and innovation from emerging markets then the tax payer is not obliged to bail this company out from redundancy expenditure. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for ford genk in order to ensure support is provided to employees of the company who lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new global financial and economic crisis. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. all too often, as repeated here, the eu is the cause and the problem and then tries to mollify the impact with financial help.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in ford genk.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, e.g. when a large company shuts down or production is moved outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. labour meps have consistently supported egf applications, moreover it is worth noting that opportunities for the uk to claim from this fund may arise in the near future and the egf could help those made redundant and wider communities affected by large shocks to the local economy. it is also worth noting the egf can do this whilst minimising the cost to the uk government.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i do not believe this to be an eu competency. furthermore the uk does not qualify for this fund.
in writing. ‒ like the egf/2015/002 de/adam opel application, i believe that this application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is completely in line with how the egf should be being used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this belgian application for a financial contribution from the egf following 5111 redundancies in ford genk. belgium intends to use the funds to implement a package of personalised services which has been drawn up in consultation with the targeted beneficiaries, their representatives, social partners, local, regional and national public employment bodies and training institutions as well as the company.
in writing. ‒ i fully support measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do i believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to alitalia airlines. the total budget for egf for the period 2014-20 is eur 1.05 billion. italy submitted an application for eur 1 414 848 to meet the redundancy costs of 1 249 employees. the italians have stated that excessive competition from gulf and turkish airlines is to blame for the redundancies so they have decided to apply for eu money as a result of not being competitive enough. personal services will be accessed like retraining and help to get employment for employees over 50. there is an element of mobility to seek employment in other members states. this company was privatised in 2009 and passenger numbers have declined by 3.6% compared to 2013 and 6.4% compared to 2012. alitalia has to take responsibility for being competitive and cannot expect the taxpayer to pay for redundancies as a direct result of not being competitive enough. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to benefit laid-off workers in italian airline alitalia. the egf was established to provide support for workers who lose their jobs as a result of globalisation, including the offshoring of jobs and the shifting in production patterns in europe. it has since been expanded to also apply to workers laid off as a result of the global financial crisis. in general it can be mobilised for use if more than 500 workers in a company or sector are made redundant, and can be used to assist the dismissed workers find new jobs through job-search services and training. in this case, gruppo alitalia has made 1,249 workers redundant in lazio in 2014 as a result of increased global competition in the aviation sector; 184 of these workers have not yet secured new employment. the report authorises the mobilisation of egf funding in order to provide personalised job-search services. i supported the use of the fund as it will provide valuable practical assistance to the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of italy, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to alitalia airlines. the total budget for egf for the period 2014-20 is eur 1.05 billion. italy submitted an application for eur 1 414 848 to meet the redundancy costs of 1249 employees. the italians have stated that excessive competition from gulf and turkish airlines is to blame for the redundancies so they have decided to apply for eu money as a result of not being competitive enough. personal services will be accessed like retraining and help to get employment for employees over 50. there is an element of mobility to seek employment in other members states. this company was privatised in 2009 and passenger numbers have declined by 3.6% compared to 2013 and 6.4% compared to 2012. alitalia has to take responsibility for being competitive and cannot expect the taxpayer to pay for redundancies as a direct result of not being competitive enough. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this fund relates to alitalia airlines. the total budget for egf for the period 2014-20 is eur 1.05 billion. italy submitted an application for eur 1 414 848 to meet the redundancy costs of 1 249 employees. the italians have stated that excessive competition from gulf and turkish airlines is to blame for the redundancies so they have decided to apply for eu money as a result of not being competitive enough. personal services will be accessed like retraining and help to get employment for employees over 50. there is an element of mobility to seek employment in other members states. this company was privatised in 2009 and passenger numbers have declined by 3.6% compared to 2013 and 6.4% compared to 2012. alitalia has to take responsibility for being competitive and cannot expect the taxpayer to pay for redundancies as a direct result of not being competitive enough. ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour of this report because it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for alitalia in order to ensure support is provided to employees of the company who lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activities have ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new global financial and economic crisis. the uk has never made an application under this fund. uk workers therefore receive none of this support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. all too often, as repeated here, the european union is the cause and the problem and then tries to mollify the impact with financial help.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant in gruppo alitalia.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, e.g. when a large company shuts down or production is moved outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. labour meps have consistently supported egf applications, moreover it is worth noting that opportunities for the uk to claim from this fund may arise in the near future and the egf could help those made redundant and wider communities affected by large shocks to the local economy. it is also worth noting the egf can do this whilst minimising the cost to the uk government.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i do not believe this to be an eu competency. furthermore the uk does not qualify for this fund.
in writing. ‒ the application from italy fulfils the eligibility criteria set down by the egf regulation and, in my view, the country should be entitled to the financial contribution afforded by the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this italian application for a financial contribution from the egf following 1249 redundancies in gruppo alitalia. italy is planning five actions for redundant workers covered by this application: intake and skill assessment, active job search support, training, reimbursement of mobility costs, and hiring benefits for over 50s.
in writing. ‒ i fully support measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do i believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ due to the vast amount of corruption present in local authorities in developing nations; there is a strong indication that taxpayers’ money would be unsafe in the hands of local authorities in developing nations. the endemic nature of corruption at a local level in developing nations combined with weak data and records capability due to the absence of modern technology, means that allocating finance directly to local authorities will only increase this possibility. therefore ukip voted against this report based on this justification.
in writing. ‒ there are aspects of this report which are good. i recognise the need for and benefit of internal devolution and decentralisation to strengthen local authorities and address regional development discrepancies. i acknowledged the role of local authorities in representing minorities and protecting their interests. however, the emphasis placed on the private sector as a ‘key enabler’ of development and its encouragement of public-private initiatives means that i am unable to support the report and have abstained accordingly.
in writing. ‒ due to the vast amount of corruption present in local authorities in developing nations; there is a strong indication that taxpayers’ money would be unsafe in the hands of local authorities in developing nations. the endemic nature of corruption at a local level in developing nations combined with weak data and records capability due to the absence of modern technology, means that allocating finance directly to local authorities will only increase this possibility. therefore i voted against this report based on this justification.
in writing. ‒ due to the vast amount of corruption present in local authorities in developing nations, there is a strong indication that taxpayers’ money would be unsafe in the hands of local authorities in developing nations. the endemic nature of corruption at a local level in developing nations combined with weak data and records capability due to the absence of modern technology, means that allocating finance directly to local authorities will only increase this possibility. therefore ukip voted against this report based on this justification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is vital we follow up on recently agreed un sustainable development goals with decisive action, by empowering local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and providing the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all must play a role in this agenda.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice. empowering local authorities in developing countries is essential to ensure accountability and transparency. local authorities provide basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all and we must encourage them to play a role in this agenda.
in writing. ‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer a new framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice around the world. this new global development framework provides a sound basis for this but the hard work has only just started. we need to ensure that local authorities are empowered in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency. if this agenda is to be implemented effectively, we cannot adopt a top-down approach. local authorities must be able to provide the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all.
in writing. ‒ local authorities are generally closer to the people than central government and therefore have an important role to play in development cooperation. this is a worthwhile report and it is to be hoped that the commission and the member states take note of its conclusions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice. however, the work must be done at every level. empowering local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and provide the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all must therefore play an important role in this agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which among other things ‘applauds the mobilisation and commitment of african cities in the preparations for the habitat iii united nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development; calls on the commission to support these mobilisation processes and to factor support for the management of a sustainable urbanisation process into its partnership plans’.
in writing. ‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice. now the real work begins, and this must be done at every level. empowering local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and provide the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all must play a role in this agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as local authorities do not have the technological coordination or organisation to properly manage vast amounts of money. i am also against eu interference: the eu should not be sending uk taxpayers’ hard-earned money abroad. this is a national government competency, not an eu one.
in writing. ‒ the sustainability development goals recently agreed by the un give us an important framework in the fight against inequality, miscarriages of justice and extreme poverty. this should be carried out at every level, empowering local authorities in developing countries to ensure both transparency and accountability. local authorities also need to be empowered to provide basic social services and the infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all and, in this agenda, they must play a role.
in writing. ‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice. now the real work begins, and this must be done at every level. empowering local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and provide the basic social services infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all must play a role in this agenda.
in writing. ‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals are a challenge that we must all strive to meet. they also represent an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice. local authorities represent an important partner in meeting these targets. by empowering, not emaciating local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and provide the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all must play a role in this agenda. by delivering aid as closely to the people who need as possible we can empower communities. this report represents a step in the right direction and therefore i have supported it.
in writing. ‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals (sdgs) offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice. now the real work begins, and this must be done at every level. empowering local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and provide the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all must play a role in this agenda. local authorities in europe and in the developing world should work together and learn from each other in order to meet common challenges and share best practice. policy-making innovations, such as the brazilian model of ‘participatory budgeting’, proves that local authorities can be important actors in creating a more deliberative, more democratic society.
in writing. ‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice. now the real work begins, and this must be done at every level. labour meps voted to empower local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and to provide the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all.
author.– madam president, for the vast majority of consumers buying a car is the single biggest purchase they make in their lives after they have bought a home. this volkswagen scandal is not just about money. it is about health as well. cheating the standards brings a massive and fundamental breach of trust. for the market to work properly there must be trust – trust that a service or a good is what the supplier claims it is, trust that it complies with the relevant laws or regulations, trust that your competitors are acting honestly, and trust that official bodies have done their jobs properly. this principle has to apply all across the single market – all across all 28 member states – and each of these standards must be applied in every country, because once we lose the trust of consumers it cannot easily be restored. currently volkswagen customers face chaos. they do not know if the car that they own is going to be recalled or upgraded or what they will be paid. consumers who are looking to buy a new car from another company are also very uncertain. they want to know whether or not it is just volkswagen who has used defeat devices or if there are other companies involved. they want to know why officials did not act sooner. who knew what? they want to know why this was discovered in the us before the eu. consumers want answers to all those questions and i agree with them. we need drivers to use diesel cars and to have confidence that when they purchase one they have made the correct choice. we cannot let the actions of one company tarnish an entire sector. so we need a full investigation, an investigation that people can have trust in, across the entire single market. i know that it is not possible to regulate away fraud, but proper oversight can minimise it. national regulators are required by law to enforce legislation. if our member states agree laws, they must implement them because the strength of any approval across the eu, including type approval, is only as strong as the weakest link. every single national regulator must work to the same high standard. otherwise, there is a race to the regulatory bottom, and turning a blind eye in one member state means that those goods can be sent across all 28. so our member states must work together in a coordinated fashion. we know that the emission tests are already being updated. we have known for many years that the emissions test and fuel efficiency claims do not represent real-world experience. that is why the commission is already due to announce new testing processes by the end of this year. indeed, early last month, before this broke out, commission officials came into my committee to discuss what they were doing, but without any details. the commission needs to make these announcements soon, because manufacturers need to know what they have to deliver, and they have to deliver in line with the new tests any new cars that are approved after the end of next year. the commission must also keep parliament involved. parliament has a role to scrutinise delegated acts, and 500 million people expect us to do our job properly. i get a bit fed up with secondary legislation being written in the commission but then arriving in parliament very much last-minute with some comment saying not to worry as it is just detail. people expect us to do our job, to scrutinise both the primary and the secondary legislation, and we must get the details right. we have to have time to understand it and we have to have time to listen to both consumers and manufacturers, and to expert advice too if necessary. in parliament we talk a lot about better lawmaking. the commission is, i believe, trying to deliver better lawmaking. we need to make that happen too and we cannot let this happen again.
blue-card question.– i listened with interest to many of the things in your speech. i was wondering whether, in your opinion, the volkswagen scandal is a one—off – or do you think, judging from your critical remarks about the german government, that perhaps they and/or the commission have maybe in some way conspired with other companies to break their own rules? what are your views on this? do you think this is maybe more widespread than we know?
madam president, it is clear that volkswagen has deliberately broken the law and deliberately misled both regulators and consumers. it was wrong to do so, and it should rightly face appropriate and proportionate penalties, but we must understand the regulatory environment in which this scandal has emerged. the truth is that legislators were consumed by climate hysteria and carbon phobia and as a result we pushed car owners and the auto industry towards diesel, which was seen as a lower emissions fuel. in fact its co2 emissions are only marginally below those of petrol, and, in any case, co2 is not a pollutant. it is a natural non-toxic gas which is essential to life on earth. but as we are now realising, diesel’s other emissions – sox and nox and particulates – are highly toxic, and our dash for diesel has done more harm than good. volkswagen was trying to follow the pressure by moving to diesel power but found that it was unable at the same time to meet emissions targets, so it decided to cheat. it was wrong to do so, but so were we as legislators wrong to impose conflicting and contradictory demands on the industry. i see a parallel here with our ill-judged rush to promote biofuels before we understood the issue of energy inputs to agriculture and the impact of indirect land-use change. by mandating 10% biofuels and then rowing back later, we sent confused signals to industry and caused great damage to investors. it is no part of my job to defend german industry, but nor is this a time for schadenfreude. i am concerned that the potential hit to volkswagen could damage all of us, especially if, as many expect, other companies are drawn into the scandal. with the prospect of multimillion dollar fines in several countries, recall costs, class actions from owners and so on, it is not inconceivable that vw could fail. that is an outcome which we should all seek to prevent.
madam president, this is obviously a very complex issue but i want to talk about it very simply from my perspective as the rapporteur for the report on national emissions ceilings, the vote on which will be at the next session of plenary in a couple of weeks’ time. the information that has come before us in the last few weeks could, you might think, have thrown us into disarray. far from it. the reason for that is that we know all about this. the only bit that is a surprise is quite how devious and criminal volkswagen has been, but we know that the testing does not work. in fact, one of the first things that happened to me as rapporteur was a presentation from the commission which set out quite graphically, in numbers, how it had not been working over the last three iterations of euro standards. so this is no surprise to anyone. maybe – and i want to emphasise that i am being ironic here – i am the only member who is actually pleased that this has happened. i am pleased because now everybody is talking about one of the major issues, one of the major scandals, that we need to deal with. indeed, we have highlighted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) our dissatisfaction with real-driving emissions, with the type approval as it currently stands, and we have put into our report that we expect the commission to come up with new proposals on type approval that actually work in real life, immediately. so it is with some disappointment that i listen to ms bieńkowska because, while she is not personally responsible, she would have had the opportunity here and now to have been able to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this is an ongoing issue. we do not know how big it is or how far it will spread and we need to be clear what went wrong before proposing new legislation. we should not be too hasty here. but one thing is clear – even if our air is not anymore – and that is that huge damage has been done to consumer trust. millions of consumers have been misled. many chose diesel models specifically for their lower emissions and for their fuel efficiency. they have been treated with contempt and now face recalls, inconvenience and increased running costs as a result. we know that manufacturers have been gaming the test for some time. we know that the tests are not up to scratch, and consumers know the manufacturers’ claims do not stack up either. and the commission now is working on new testing legislation, which we are looking forward to seeing, but this should not be sneaked through in delegated acts. it needs proper parliamentary scrutiny. the issue is too big to do anything otherwise. in this house we are constantly told, by those who do not like the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement, that the us is some sort of regulatory wild west where anything goes and there are no rules at all. yet it was the us regulators that found this, not the europeans. why were our regulators asleep at the wheel? maybe we should start looking to the us for help on this. this scandal resonates across the atlantic and it also shows the need for regulatory coherence, which is a key part of ttip. one final plea here: let us find out what happened before rushing into legislation. that is the only way we will get better legislation. please, can the commission not use this to justify another power grab?
mr president, we now know that up to half of the savings that we have seen – apparent savings that we have seen – in emissions from cars have come from faulty testing, which means of course in effect that half the saving has not actually existed. this is a terrible indictment on the systems that we have in place. of course it is unfair on consumers, but it is also unfair on policymakers because we have to rely on the facts in order to make the laws that we put forward. i am very confused by some of the comments i have heard – particularly from my conservative opponents – stating that they recognise the problem that we are all talking about, but they do not want to put the tools in place to actually deal with it. it is absolutely incumbent on the commission to act at european level, because we have to take european action in order to hold individual countries’ industries to account. we need independent testing; we need in-use surveillance testing; and we need real-driving emission (rde) standards as part of that. we cannot wait any longer. commissioner, forgive me, but i do not feel a sense of urgency from you yet. we need that urgency.
blue-card question.– mr panzeri, you seem very critical of the united nations and it would seem – from where i am sitting in this chamber – that you took some sort of high and mighty approach that the european union is the best international organisation to try and get a result. are you really so sure, with the european union’s own abysmal record in certain areas, that you are better placed to deal with this than the united nations? i think perhaps you need to have a look at the bigger picture, and this is the problem.
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting the question. i broadly agreed with much of your speech. do you agree with me that there is a great irony in the fact that, in countries – including, to our shame, countries like the uk where we had tony blair cosying up to gaddafi and other european countries – which have had really detrimental effects on libya, people now think they can go in and solve all these problems? well, let us be truthful: the countries represented in the eu are the ones that caused most of the problems. would you agree?
mr president, what makes the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy think she can have any influence on the course of libyan politics and push for a government of national unity when there is little unity within the member states of the eu itself? just look at the individual member states’ reactions to the current migrant crisis. the folly of the initial western intervention in libya is well documented and the collective failure of the international community – including the commission – to effectively secure peace in north africa has led to a power vacuum in libya that even president obama has been forced to acknowledge. this in turn has created a breeding ground for terrorist groups such as islamic state to build fiefdoms, operate criminal empires with impunity and threaten the very fabric of security in the eu’s member states by flooding the continent with their fighters. in fact, there is no better example of the eu’s foreign policy failures than the vile human-trafficking trade operating from libya, which has led to countless deaths and has left european politicians scratching around for a reactive solution to the mayhem they helped create in the first place. and what does the eu do instead of seeking a head-on solution to the migration crisis? they demand yet more european centralisation, this time through the creation of an eu—wide coastguard and border force. having seen what has happened to countries that put their trust in the eu’s management of the euro, i would not trust any eu bureaucrat to effectively police our seas, secure our borders or give advice on unity governance.
mr president, more than half a million people reached europe this year via the mediterranean and nearly three thousand have died crossing the sea. it is not only a humanitarian crisis but also a security crisis. the recently launched naval common security and defence policy mission to combat smuggling is welcome. however, we need a comprehensive response to the complex problem that we are facing. as long as there is no unity government that can exercise its legitimate authority over libya, the situation is likely to deteriorate even further. the eu must put in more effort and support more actively the un-led dialogue process. libyans want and deserve peace. they should not be held hostage by a small minority that seeks to win this conflict by military means. regional cooperation should be encouraged in place of destructive interference. we call on external parties to strictly respect the arms embargo and fully support the un-led dialogue and the draft agreement on the table. the eu must remain fully committed, without taking any sides, to assisting the libyan people, resolving the crisis to achieve peace and helping them to build strong government institutions.
mr president, if the european union and the international community is to be successful, we will have to show that we have learned some lessons from the past, namely our own nations’ failings once again in post-conflict planning; how arms sales to gaddafi from the european union of more than eur 800 million in five years came back to haunt us; how we must not let ourselves be complicit with security responses which do not respect democratic or legal norms – there must be no new gaddafi; and that a moment of transition can itself be transitory. benghazi, which was a symbol of resistance, is now one of destruction. so today we must be sincere in seeking a peaceful reconciliation in the interests of the libyan people themselves, and not only through the prism of controlling migration to our shores. that means support for security sector reform in future in relation to the country’s southern as well as its maritime borders, supporting its local authorities, and preventing groups from being recruited into isis-daesh. europe talks about creating hotspots for migration control, but the consequences of the failure of democratic transition in libya have created a hotspot for terror. what is needed now is consistent european effort to help turn down the heat in the politics of libya, for its security and for its people.
mr president, the commissioner gave some detail on the aid that is available to libya, including some additional eur 100 million. that is in addition to already existing programmes. can you confirm, commissioner, that this generous aid going forward will be connected to guarantees on such important issues as freedom from persecution and discrimination for christians and other religious minorities? secondly, under colonel gaddafi, libya armed the irish republican army – terrorists who were responsible for thousands of deaths and many victims who are still living in northern ireland with trauma and injury. speaking to the northern ireland affairs committee in westminster, a uk government minister claimed that gbp 900 million of libya’s frozen assets in the uk could not be used as compensation for these victims because that contravened eu law. can you confirm if this is the case? if so, will you work with the victims of libyan-sponsored terrorism in northern ireland to remove the barriers to appropriate compensation and right a terrible wrong?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i am no fan of the death penalty, although i am a fan of democracy. we have heard the anti-death penalty view over and over again in this chamber and, in general, i share it. however, if i were to ask my constituents what they thought, opinion would be very divided indeed as to whether somebody who deliberately and callously takes a life should have the potential of losing their own as punishment. when we look more broadly, ask me to condemn the saudi arabian injustice system and i will – not because of the death penalty itself, because that is a decision for a sovereign government, but because of its systematic unfairness and the crimes for which the penalty can be given. so i do not support the death penalty, but also i believe it is wrong to politicise trade to enforce one view over others, and to say that we believe this is the only valid view. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– whilst mr arnott and i normally agree on most things, on this we disagree. whilst my colleague takes a more moderate view – and i believe some crimes could be forgiven only by god and i hasten to make that judgment come forward – would he not agree with me that the primacy of democracy is the single most important factor in any nation-state and for any politician, and that if the people of a country democratically decide through a referendum to have the death penalty restored, that should be respected by any true democrat?
blue-card answer.– i believe in the principle of democracy and, yes, if the people of a country wished to bring that in, then of course i would have to accept it. but equally, i would expect mr etheridge to accept that, if my personal view were to win out, you should not have the death penalty. that is what democracy is. however, we are at a point where i do not believe that we can fundamentally trust the state always to get it right and to have that power of life or death, which cannot be undone.
mr president, like others i welcome the eu’s opposition to the death penalty but would agree that we need consistency of approach. i believe that the eu’s human rights interventions can be effective, especially when they are made in the context of negotiations that genuinely matter for the countries concerned. take the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+), for example, or assistance to law enforcement institutions. i also agree with others who have made the point that the quality of justice in so many countries that maintain the death penalty leaves much to be desired. indeed, the use of the death penalty can be seen in some of those countries as a political instrument. like others, i find it regrettable that pakistan has lifted its moratorium on the death penalty and resumed executions, including of some of those tried under the musharraf regime. however, i welcome the recent stay of execution in pakistan for abdul basit, who is a severely disabled person, and i trust that the eu will continue to pursue this case within the context of gsp+.
mr president, as many other speakers have already mentioned, this saturday people all over the world will stand up against the death penalty. that includes in the uk, where support for the death penalty for the first time this year is below 50% – something i am very pleased to have noted. we all have to continue to condemn those countries that make the greatest use of the death penalty, and like other colleagues i single out here the case of iran. i am very pleased that diplomatic relations between the eu and iran are becoming normalised, but i am disturbed that we have not seen more public condemnation from the eu of the escalation in the use of the death penalty under president rouhani. lastly, i am also disappointed that none of my uk conservative colleagues appear to be here in the chamber for this debate. in the past they have often allowed their group to have a free vote on death penalty resolutions or to abstain. i hope that policy will change this week in the face of the continuing massive use of the death penalty by many undemocratic regimes across the world.
mr president, the oral question asks the council to use its power to pressurise those countries that still have the death penalty to abolish it. if only the council would reply that it is not doing anything because it is none of its business. the eu has no right to tell civilised countries that they should not execute the worst of their criminals – and i mean criminals and not political opponents. i cannot think of a single reason why british criminals, such as the moors murderers, the yorkshire ripper and robert black, the child murderer, should not pay for their crimes with their lives. if a referendum were held in england tomorrow on the return of the death penalty, it is my guess that the british people would vote for it, and i certainly would. i hope that those civilised countries that do have the death penalty will tell the eu to mind its own business.
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting the blue card at this late time of the night. very briefly: you speak about attacking the source, and the source of the pollutants you speak of is industry. without industry, there is not the finance to pay for the fine aspirations about clean air which, i am sure, we both share. would you not accept that industry needs to be taken into account, and that we must make sure that whatever measures come forth from this place are at least industry-friendly so that industry continues to be a source of wealth as well as pollution?
madam president, on behalf of my delegation i would like to welcome this agreement. i know that this has been a difficult negotiation and this agreement represents a fair compromise between very different points of view. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur particularly for his skilful handling and for steering this through. i believe that it is vitally important to get an agreement and to get it in place as quickly as possible. poor air quality is one of the most serious health issues we currently face in europe. it is very easy to ask for perfection but sometimes perfection is the enemy of the good, so i am delighted to see ambition tempered by pragmatism, and the setting of conditions that will allow investment in new technologies and new renewables to take place. so i welcome this.
madam president, my party believes in the importance of improving air quality in europe. however, we are firmly opposed to the commission’s proposal to create new eu legislation in this field. we opposed the eco-design directive and the industrial emissions directive, so we will categorically oppose a directive covering all medium combustion plants. we oppose a mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants, because we do not think that this is a matter that should be regulated by unelected bureaucrats in brussels. conversely, we support those exceptions to the directive that alleviate the impact of this over-prescriptive regulation. current eu policy frameworks have failed to deliver legal certainty to investors, and few can afford to invest in this environment. over—regulation threatens the free-market system of investment and production, and additional eu regulation will not promote the re-industrialisation of europe. europe needs to become competitive, create jobs and increase productivity.
madam president, so here we are: a new directive to combat air pollution. we all want clean air. i am from an area of the west midlands of england called the black country and the reason it was called that was because during more industrial times the air was black with smog and many people in my area died from air pollution, so i understand entirely the requirement for cleaner air. over the years, that has no longer been an issue because deindustrialisation unfortunately means we have less production, but also the british government has taken measures to clean the air. i do not believe that, as the uk, we need to be subject to an eu regulation and more rules on this kind of thing. i believe we can handle this ourselves. but i do believe that whoever handles this must be extremely cautious and careful that they do not take measures which make life even harder than it is now for industry, manufacturing and output. our economies cannot take more self-inflicted punishment, so i urge caution and i state that the uk can do this on its own.
madam president, we in ukip firmly believe in preserving the health and well-being of all citizens by guaranteeing transparency when it comes to the ingredients of the food they consume. we also think that it is important for companies involved in food production to have access to the information they require in order to label the final product, particularly in the case of allergens. however, we do not think that these issues should be regulated at an eu level, and we believe that britain should have the autonomy to legislate in this domain. in addition to replacing existing legislation on caseins with a new eu directive, the commission also seeks to align the powers of the commission to adopt delegated or implementing acts with provisions introduced with the lisbon treaty. we in ukip reject the lisbon treaty, which is an eu constitution in disguise, and we object to any more powers being transferred to the commission.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, this tragedy is a sad reminder of the challenges afghanistan is still facing, against a background of instability, war and conflict. the last two weeks have seen a jihadist resurgence in the north and the east of the country, threatening the achievements reached so far in development, governance and rule of law, including the rights of women, fundamental freedoms and access to basic services. confronted with the taliban who wage war, we need to recommit in our support to the national unity government and in ensuring that afghanistan is, and will stay, high on the international agenda. recent developments in and around kunduz are worrying for all of us: the taliban attack, the suffering it has caused to innocent civilians in the area, the very serious humanitarian situation. the overall situation remains fragile and unstable. the attack that severely hit a médecins sans frontières (msf) hospital in kunduz on 3 october was a tragedy which i profoundly deplore – as commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management but also as a doctor. hospitals and medical personnel are explicitly protected under international humanitarian law: they can never be the object of attack. the latest reported death toll indicates that 12 msf staff are confirmed dead, as well as 10 patients, including three children. our thoughts are with all the families of the victims, the medical staff and the humanitarian aid workers. our thoughts are with all those who, in afghanistan and in the too many conflict areas around the world, dedicate their time, skills and indeed their life to assisting victims of war, saving their lives and improving their living conditions. msf has been operating the hospital in kunduz under extremely trying conditions – and not only there. i have witnessed myself on numerous visits to crisis areas their dedication in their life-saving work in the most acute emergencies. msf are there when almost everybody else has pulled out. as eu ebola coordinator, i particularly want to commend their outstanding work in relation to the ebola crisis in liberia, guinea and sierra leone. without the amazing courage and dedication of msf, the world would still be struggling to get ebola under control. but let me get back to afghanistan. afghan children, women and men are suffering the devastating humanitarian consequences of over three decades of war and conflict. our tribute, not only to msf but also to other humanitarian organisations for their life-saving work in afghanistan and elsewhere, will never be strong enough. this parliament knows very well what it means to pay tribute to humanitarian workers and human rights defenders. we all owe them a lot. and, as in other conflict situations, humanitarian workers have paid with their lives to assist the most vulnerable. but while we commend the courageous and dedicated staff of these organisations, we have to be firm and clear in affirming the absolute need to protect their lives and their work, and the lives and dignity of those they assist. this tragedy demonstrates the disproportionate risk for civilians when violent conflict reaches urban areas. all parties must do everything in their power to distinguish between military and civilian targets, including medical facilities. all parties must respect and protect medical and humanitarian personnel and facilities. president ashraf ghani said that the afghan forces and nato’s support mission are obliged to ensure the safety of civilians and exercise precision in military operations. he stressed that afghan and foreign forces alike must put in serious efforts not to target public places during military operations. at the same time, afghanistan’s independent human rights commission (aihrc) has called for a probe into reports of possible war crimes committed in this past week by the taliban in kunduz city. the organisation has appealed to security and judicial organisations to identify the perpetrators and see to it that justice is carried out. msf and the un have called for a thorough investigation into the attack. president ghani and us secretary of defence ashton carter have stressed that a full and transparent investigation will be conducted. we welcome the afghan and us commitment to that effect, and expect that it will bring clear results very soon. but, this tragedy is a sad reminder of the fact that afghanistan still needs to find its way out of decades of conflicts. it needs a comprehensive answer to the many difficult challenges it is facing: this should comprise continued efforts to engage the main actors, and it has to build on a revised afghan security strategy. but the focus must also be on local governance and on connecting the local population to the government. the afghan government has presented a string of actions it will take. effective implementation is required, and we are ready to accompany the afghan authorities and people in this difficult process. in terms of immediate action we must now quickly evaluate the need for additional humanitarian support. in the same vein, we call on the afghan government to facilitate better humanitarian access to kunduz and to the internally displaced. we need improved humanitarian air services, and we have to look into the possibility of opening a humanitarian corridor in kunduz province. we also need all regional stakeholders to come together and join efforts to create a lasting peace. this is at the centre of our diplomatic work, as we pointed out in discussions with all the relevant international players last week in new york, at the high level conference on the fringe of the un general assembly. the european union will continue to work with the national unity government during this difficult period. we will stand at its side and, first and foremost, at the side of all afghan people.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, on behalf of my group i extend our deepest condolences to the families and friends of all those who have tragically lost their lives in the attack in kunduz. our thoughts are with their families. we pay tribute to the doctors without borders staff who bravely and selflessly worked as fighting raged in kunduz over the past week. we also applaud all other heroic doctors and other medical staff around the world who risk their lives every day trying to save others. the hospital was clearly marked and the exact location of the hospital was communicated to all parties to the conflict. more than 22 civilians were killed in the attack – 12 medical staff and 10 patients, three of them children – and 37 more were injured. we, as a group, strongly condemn this attack. under the rules of international humanitarian law, a hospital is a hospital, and the people inside are patients and medical staff. to target a medical facility in this way is a violation of that law, whatever the circumstances. given the seriousness of the harm and the gravity of the alleged legal violations, it is critical that there is a prompt and full independent investigation to ensure maximum transparency and accountability, and those responsible must be brought to justice. constantly we see certain measures adopted to counter terrorism violating international laws. we learned earlier this month of david cameron’s decision to carry out a british drone attack, killing citizens extrajudicially outside the uk. the us routinely violates the airspace of pakistan and carries out drone attacks resulting in the death of civilians. the objectives are to save human lives and dignity in the face of a terrorist threat. combating terrorism cannot be used as an excuse for the violation of international laws. there always needs to be a strong response from the eu, and respect for human rights and the rule of law must prevail. we also condemn the taliban for the violence that they have carried out. the taliban successes in and around kunduz are the consequences of corrupt and abusive governance. the afghan government needs to be united and needs to focus on legitimate grievances and community consensus building. a political transition which features a genuine inclusive effort is needed, otherwise the security situation is likely to worsen further. the eu and the international community should assist in this through diplomacy and negotiations. regional cooperation, with the objective of promoting long-term peace, stability and security in the wider region, is essential. the cooperation with pakistan is especially important: we welcome their assistance in the new conciliation process and encourage continuing progress on the path of improved relations and cooperation between kabul and islamabad. afghanistan must not be forgotten in more pressing crisis. we welcome the help that has been announced this morning for the civilians in the kunduz area. although thousands of kilometres away, we in europe have been experiencing the effect of the increased instability in afghanistan. many afghans, too, are giving up on their country. afghans have been devastated by over three decades of conflict. they urgently deserve peace. the us states that this attack was a mistake, but they have now offered four different accounts, hence the need for an independent inquiry. the attack has implications not only in afghanistan but also for medical ngos across the world. we have a responsibility to ensure that this type of tragedy does not happen again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, as the commissioner has said, many of us have encountered msf working in challenging conditions in many parts of the world and we respect their integrity, their independence and their policy of making no distinctions based on patients’ ethnicity, religious beliefs, or political affiliation. we know this can create problems for some regimes, but it also means that msf and other medical charities can often gain the trust of local populations. like others here, my group also condemns this bombing and also wishes to extend our deepest condolences to those who have lost their loved ones, their friends or their colleagues. people should feel safe in a place of healing, and it is certainly a much needed facility. as we have been told, the coordinates were given, but for whatever reason they were not respected. i think questions are raised yet again about what is really meant by precision bombing, and what the value of such bombing is. we are told that this may constitute a war crime. it is certainly a grave violation of international humanitarian law, and so, as others have done, we support the call by msf for an independent investigation: however uncomfortable that may be, accountability is essential. and, as was said, all war crimes should be investigated.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the level of political and military assistance now invested by russia to support the brutal assad regime ensures that neither of these actors can be ignored in seeking a solution to this bitter conflict. i have been highly critical of russia’s actions in ukraine in the past, but we cannot allow these difficulties to preclude working with russia now in other areas of foreign policy where necessary. this was true of the nuclear agreement with iran and is now true, sadly, of syria. reports that russia is indiscriminately targeting areas of syria that are known to be controlled by groups other than isis are a major concern to the west. furthermore, as reports emerge suggesting that russia will consider integrating its troops within battalions loyal to assad, as rebel syrian groups announce plans now to jointly fight russian forces, and as turkey cites violations of its airspace by the russian air force, we are just beginning to comprehend the many effects, and the potential for conflagration of further war, that russia’s latest moves could have. a will by the european union to cut a deal, with a transitional role for assad in exchange for immunity, is worth considering, however unpalatable that may appear. for me, the lesser of two evils ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, in the tragedy that is syria it is difficult to know where to start: 310 000 people killed, countless more lives ruined through injury or bereavement, 4.5 million refugees, seven million internally displaced people. with the scale of this tragedy there is little wonder that the humanitarian consequences are quite literally washing up on our shores and i very much echo comments of colleagues on the humanitarian consequences of this tragedy. our group has always stressed that the only solution in syria, the only way in which we can create a safe environment for people to return to, is a political solution. there was a time when concerted intervention by the international community could have helped, but we remain deeply sceptical on current air strikes against the so-called islamic state. we have seen 7 000 us strikes, and we now see informal us, uk and french engagement, but to little avail. we are tackling the symptoms, rather than the cause. adam garfinkle, a us diplomat turned academic, has criticised us policy on isis, and i think his criticism applies to french and british policy also. tackling isis is akin to thinking that you can alter the position of a shadow by doing things to the shadow. we are not tackling the right things. likewise, we should not be fooled by the actions of russia in this conflict. sergei ivanov, the kremlin’s chief of staff, says, and i quote: ‘the military aim of our operations will exclusively be to provide air support to syrian government forces in the struggle against isis.’ yet russian attacks have been in areas with no isis presence – against free syrian army positions in latakia, homs, hama and even aleppo. the assad regime has killed eight times more people than isis. this parliament hosted the caesar exhibition, evidence of brutal torture by this regime. assad is not a partner in peace. he is the primary obstacle to it and we must not drift towards the assad regime in order to try to build a viable peace. we must facilitate a wider international engagement and raise our game.
blue-card question. – mr president, i am grateful to the colleague for giving way. mr salvini, i rise to give you a point of information that perhaps did not reach you: mrs mogherini has communicated to our services that she is ill presently and that is why she is absent. so perhaps you would care to withdraw your rather ungentlemanly remarks made earlier.
mr president, after a very shaky start it is good to see this debate get off the ground. the situation in syria is certainly one of the most pressing of our time, and a redoubling of efforts must focus on the core of the problem: a syria ruled by a brutal dictator, and the fanatical evil of isil, who are not only destroying the ancient heritage of syria but also murdering its people and targeting groups of christians and other minorities in a most brutal, almost medieval, fashion – certainly something that we have not experienced in a long time. the manifestation of this is a flood of people displaced to surrounding nations and now to europe. mr schmit, you outlined some of the efforts in relation to europe and this terrible humanitarian crisis, but you did not outline any of the pressures that you are putting on the surrounding states in the gulf to do much more to help in this difficult situation. there are many of us who believe that ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as so often in this chamber and its like, we have wrestled with the escalation of conflict in the middle east through the emergence of proxy war. now, with the russian intervention in syria and the potential for a clash in its airspace, we face the danger of the biggest proxy war of all. little did we think, in debating the possible setting up of a no-fly zone, that the planes that could be shot down would be big jets from moscow. little did we think, in debating how to combat the problem of foreign fighters, that they could be so-called volunteers in uniforms with or without the insignia of the russian army. everyone involved in the iran talks says that russia undertook a constructive role in spite of the disagreement over ukraine. everyone involved in the syria crisis believes that iranian and russian interests must be made to be part of the solution, rather than part of the problem. i went to tehran with the committee on foreign affairs in connection with the nuclear talks and i have taken on the rapporteurship on iran because i believe in the power of diplomacy. however difficult it might seem, that must today apply to russia too. some will say that this week’s dramatic events risk simply exposing europe’s powerlessness. today we have to say that bold diplomacy could be a sign of strength, not of weakness, just as much as the dropping of bombs – and, i think, more so. today this parliament must call for europe to engage in that bold diplomacy and, in doing so, call on others to respond in kind. what are the fundamental principles that must guide our action? that there must be a political transition in syria to end the situation as it is today, but not to return to the one as it was yesterday; that there is less, rather than more, consensus over an alternative future and that this should urgently inform our discussions; that an imperfect and painful political solution, which genuinely sought to be inclusive, was ultimately possible in iraq and can be in syria too; that there is no purely military solution to this war; that there is a common foe in terrorism – so let us have an honest debate on how it can be combatted and genuine common efforts to do so; and that civilians are being endangered, when all efforts should be towards their protection. my party supports the creation of humanitarian safe havens … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as we have seen this week, russia has grasped the opportunity to shore up her middle east ally through supportive airstrikes, whilst reminding us of president putin’s potential to commit large troop numbers to syria. to further complicate matters, we must also consider reports that some chinese military personnel will soon be arriving on the scene. we must wake up and smell the coffee. the west is now on the back foot with these two permanent members of the un security council potentially set not just to fight against islamic state in syria but also possibly to change the balance of power in the middle east, if they can determine a serious post-war settlement. the lack of ability in the west to formulate a long-term strategic plan has left us with a stark choice of whether or not we are now happy to see president assad remain in power. whatever the eventual outcome, the political dynamics of the middle east may well be about to change for the foreseeable future. from what i am hearing today, it seems to me that all you can do is mumble something into your coffee.
blue-card question.– would you agree with me that really the only concerns that anyone from the eu should have regarding syria are (a) to make sure that any support is given to anyone who is trying to crush isis – the greatest threat currently out there – and (b) to ensure that the current mass flow of migrants, uncontrolled, into the eu is somehow stemmed and brought under control? all else is neo—imperialism. we should not be concerned with anything but those two factors.
blue-card question.– is my colleague actually trying to tell us that all the mess that we are seeing around the world now in relation to syria – with 10 million people becoming refugees, with a quarter of a million who have been killed – is the fault of the eu?
mr president, the syrian crisis is the root of two of the most serious global problems right now: the refugee crisis and the threat posed by isis. russia’s latest moves in syria are not helpful. they are likely to lead to more and prolonged suffering for the syrian people. alleviating those global problems requires tackling them at the source, so we need a policy that (a) stems the killing in syria, the majority of which is the result of the brutal assad regime’s aerial bombardment, (b) reduces the humanitarian impact, including slowing the exodus, (c) combats extremism, and (d) leads to a political solution. we need to engage russia and iran to find a solution urgently. a no-fly zone is the first step to turning the crisis around. it is the only policy option that saves lives, reduces the exodus, reduces radicalisation, and also makes a political solution more likely.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the complex web of relationships and partnerships that turkey’s foreign policy has forged – from what it is doing in syria and libya to its dealings in egypt and with israel in the last couple of years – has become almost incomprehensible. as turkey rumbles towards elections on 1 november 2015, it remains to be seen whether erdoğan can restore his ak party’s lost majority. in the meantime, clashes with the pkk, whom he considers to be the real terrorists, rather than isis, continue. the ceasefire that we thought might be going somewhere – and any lasting peace – is now completely lost. the eu must now engage constructively with turkey, a strategic country which has sadly not respected its readmission agreements with greece and has allowed a huge exodus of migrants. russia’s recent push to support the assad regime results in a russia-syria policy that is now entirely opposed to the stated aims of erdoğan’s turkey, whose airspace russia is now violating. the deterioration of human rights in turkey, with the arrest of journalists, is also a major concern. so, altogether, the situation is pretty bleak, but i do hope that this year will see at least a solution to the problem in cyprus under the new leadership of the turkish community leader, mustafa akinci. at least there is some prospect of bright light in cyprus, but for the rest it is all pretty depressing.
blue-card question. – mr lambsdorff, i entirely agree that turkey remains a strategic partner: it is a member of nato, it is a candidate country for the european union, etcetera, etcetera. but the fact is that, over recent years, the human rights situation is deteriorating, and democracy is basically also deteriorating. moreover – quite clearly from all the intelligence reports – they have been supporting terrorist groups in the syrian conflict. do you think it is time now that we began to keep in reserve some of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) pre-accession monies – which amount to hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers’ money to assist turkey – as a conditionality way of trying to put increased pressure on them to improve their situation in terms of human rights and democracy and their support for terrorists? (applause)
madam president, turkey is a candidate country, as others have said, and, in consequence, turkey has received an incredible eur 3.8 billion in pre-accession funding in the past five years, and it is scheduled to receive another eur 3.2 billion in the next five years. however, in the context of immigration to member states, as a previous speaker pointed out, turkey does not qualify as a safe country – it is not safe. but if turkey is not a safe country, it follows that it cannot, should not and must not be a candidate country. free movement, under article 45, from turkey – not a safe country – has to be a complete non-starter. we should not be paying turkey all this money. and, to answer mr brok’s ludicrous point, we can cooperate fully with turkey without admitting turkey to the european union. the fact is that turkey is an asian country and can never be an eu member state.
madam president, the total mismanagement of the migrant crisis by the eu has now led to a situation where the supposedly powerful bloc must go with an open chequebook to a turkish president who is trying to have his cake and eat it. president erdoğan is now using the crisis as a lever to win political and financial concessions from a weakened eu that is desperate to find a solution to this problem of its own making. giving in to erdoğan’s demands also makes the eu complicit in turkey’s military actions against the pkk and other groups currently engaged in fighting isis. this action, in turn, could lead to more is fighters entering europe, like the image of the child migrant making beheading gestures that we saw published in the uk press today. when will the eu realise that, until we have a realistic solution to the wars raging across the middle east and north africa, no amount of political and financial concessions to other states will alleviate the migrant crisis?
madam president, it is difficult to understand turkey’s foreign policy strategy, bearing in mind how they initially stood by, preventing kobane’s inhabitants from either escaping or protecting themselves, before grudgingly allowing kurdish intervention. turkey’s latest rationale seems to indicate that by attacking islamic state they may somehow make the west more tolerant of their own disgraceful behaviour towards the kurds. furthermore, there is the question of turkey’s aspirations in syria, where they have now given logistical and intelligence support to jaish al-fatah, the very command structure for syrian jihadist groups. one must consider whether they now support a sunni overthrow of a shia government. considering all this, can we truly put our hands on our hearts and say that turkey genuinely upholds western values? i, for one, believe that the time has come formally to curb turkish aspirations for eventual eu membership.
mr president, our parliament in the united kingdom sat for 142 days last year and it was criticised widely for only sitting for that amount of time, yet we in brussels and strasbourg, in the plenary and mini-plenary, sit for just five days a month, and on three of those days it is only for part of a day that we actually sit. we end up with a debate in this chamber in which speakers’ microphones are cut off after 60 seconds, 90 seconds or two minutes, and we have no way of expanding on a point; we have no way of properly challenging a speaker; we have no means of proper scrutiny of proposed legislation that comes through. surely it would make more sense to have sufficient time allocated for proper reasoned debate. and those who actually believe in the structures and institutions of this place should surely welcome that. i think my 60 seconds is up!
in writing. ‒ i regret that once more the calendar foresees parliament being in strasbourg for 12 weeks.
in writing. ‒ we need to have an organised parliamentary calendar, and the way that this has been presented allows me to carry out my parliamentary tasks and duties, while giving me sufficient time to stay in touch with the west midlands.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas. as a secondary point, the full financial implications of this decision to the united kingdom, in terms of our overall net contribution to the european union budgets and the money available within the uk via these programmes are unknown. we will therefore not provide blanket support for tunisia’s access to eu funding programmes when the full financial implications are not fully worked out.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which was a consent vote on a council decision on a protocol to the euro-med agreement to allow tunisia to access eu programmes through a framework agreement. the tunisian government that was elected last year is in favour of pluralist democracy and the new constitution is generally liberal, inclusive, pro-gender equality and pluralist, and includes protections for all religions and minorities. the agreement will not be with a particular government but with the republic of tunisia i did not vote against giving consent as i did not wish to block the tunisian government from accessing eu civilian programmes that it could find very useful in transitioning to democracy after decades of dictatorship. programmes named in the justification include cooperation in education, universities, research and erasmus. however, one of the programmes tunisia would be authorised to join is the eu’s common security and defence policy. eu and us military policy in the middle east and north africa has resulted in disastrous consequences and the further expansion of this policy is something i oppose, which is why i did not vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that tunisia should be allowed to participate in taxpayer-funded programmes, and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas. as a secondary point the full financial implications of this decision to the united kingdom, in terms of our overall net contribution to the european union budgets and the money available within the uk via these programmes, are unknown. we will therefore not provide blanket support for tunisia’s access to eu funding programmes when the full financial implications are not fully worked out.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, ukip does not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas. as a secondary point, the full financial implications of this decision to the united kingdom, in terms of our overall net contribution to the european union budgets and the money available within the uk via these programmes are unknown. ukip will therefore not provide blanket support for tunisia’s access to eu funding programmes when the full financial implications are not fully worked out.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas. as a secondary point the full financial implications of this decision to the united kingdom, in terms of our overall net contribution to the european union budgets and the money available within the uk via these programmes, are unknown. we will therefore not provide blanket support for tunisia’s access to eu funding programmes when the full financial implications are not fully worked out.
in writing. – we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas. as a secondary point the full financial implications of this decision to the united kingdom, in terms of our overall net contribution to the european union budgets and the money available within the uk via these programmes, are unknown. we will therefore not provide blanket support for tunisia’s access to eu funding programmes when the full financial implications are not fully worked out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given that tunisia today is confronted with a deteriorating economic crisis after the terrorist attacks at bardo national museum and sousse. in this context it is vital to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s transition to democracy. i welcome the fact that this protocol opens up the possibility of tunisia taking part in eu programmes and encourages the eu to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s fragile transition to democracy, bearing in mind that the success of tunisia is in the interests of the entire region and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation. this protocol opens up the possibility to tunisia to take part in eu programmes and encourages the eu to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s fragile transition to democracy, bearing in mind that the success of tunisia is in the interests of the entire region and the eu.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas. as a secondary point the full financial implications of this decision to the united kingdom, in terms of our overall net contribution to the european union budgets and the money available within the uk via these programmes, are unknown. we will therefore not provide blanket support for tunisia’s access to eu funding programmes when the full financial implications are not fully worked out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation. this protocol opens up the possibility to tunisia to take part in eu programmes and encourages the eu to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting the country’s fragile transition to democracy, bearing in mind that the success of tunisia is in the interests of the entire region and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. tunisia was the birthplace of the arab spring. thus far, it is the only country in the mena region to survive this social and political experiment. the success of tunisia’s transition to democracy will depend on its future economic and social development. tunisia has significant long-term growth potential. the implementation of the expected reforms, combined with existing assets such as its human resources and open economy, will unleash this potential, thereby boosting its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which is a recommendation to consent to the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the ec and tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as i do not think the eu should be spending uk taxpayers’ money on projects in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ for me and my group, tunisia is a priority. it is where the arab spring began, and it is vital that the development of tunisia after its regime change is met with support and enthusiasm. confronted with an economic crisis and terror attacks, this support cannot wait. it is vital to make concrete economic and investment commitments aimed at supporting this country and the transition to democracy.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned a proposal to legislate further on the european small claims procedure by amending existing legislation. the uk independence party is in principle opposed to the european union having the power to legislate for the united kingdom and would normally vote against any report which advocated legislation or which was itself a legislative proposal. in this instance, we are very mindful of the impact of debts up to eur 10 000 being unpaid on uk small-to-medium enterprises (smes) and the effort and costs of recovering such sums and ukip is therefore minded not to oppose this report. ukip decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with raising the thresholds for the value of a claim. previously, the threshold was set at eur 2 000. the report provides that this limit would be raised to eur 5 000 if pursued against a natural person i.e. an individual and eur 10 000 if pursued against a legal person i.e. a company. by way of background, the european small claims procedure applies to all claims with a cross-border element. this includes cases where the parties are both domiciled in the same member state and only the place of performance of the contract, the place where the harmful event takes place or the place of enforcement of the judgment is situated in another member state. this provides an important remedy for cross-border disputes which in many member states is woefully lacking at present. one final positive point is that legal assistance can also be provided to parties free of charge, which did not previously exist.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote. whilst there could be some advantages to smes, i am concerned about certain potential cross-border issues with regard to debt enforcement.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned a proposal to legislate further on the european small claims procedure by amending existing legislation. the uk independence party is in principle opposed to the european union having the power to legislate for the united kingdom and would normally vote against any report which advocated legislation or which was itself a legislative proposal. in this instance we are very mindful of the impact of debts up to eur 10 000 being unpaid to uk small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the effort and costs of recovering such sums, and ukip is therefore minded not to oppose this report. ukip decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned a proposal further to legislate on the european small claims procedure by amending existing legislation. the uk independence party is in principle opposed to the european union having the power to legislate for the united kingdom, and would normally vote against any report which advocated legislation or which was itself a legislative proposal. in this instance we are very mindful of the impact on uk small-to-medium enterprises (smes) of debts of up to eur 10 000 being unpaid, and of the effort and costs of recovering such sums. ukip is therefore minded not to oppose this report. ukip decided to abstain, and i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned a proposal to legislate further on the european small claims procedure by amending existing legislation. the uk independence party is in principle opposed to the european union having the power to legislate for the united kingdom and would normally vote against any report which advocated legislation or which was itself a legislative proposal. in this instance we are very mindful of the impact of debts up to eur 10 000 being unpaid to uk small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the effort and costs of recovering such sums, and ukip is therefore minded not to oppose this report. ukip decided to abstain.
in writing. – this report concerned a proposal to legislate further on the european small claims procedure by amending existing legislation. the uk independence party is in principle opposed to the european union having the power to legislate for the united kingdom and would normally vote against any report which advocated legislation or which was itself a legislative proposal. in this instance we are very mindful of the impact of debts up to eur 10 000 being unpaid to uk small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the effort and costs of recovering such sums, and ukip is therefore minded not to oppose this report. ukip decided to abstain
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as it attempts to solve issues previously created and will help consumers and smes in small claims courts. i am happy to see an attempt to reduce the procedural burden for individuals and small businesses. access to law should not be made more difficult by red tape and bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned a proposal to legislate further on the european small claims procedure by amending existing legislation. the uk independence party is in principle opposed to the european union having the power to legislate for the united kingdom and would normally vote against any report which advocated legislation or which was itself a legislative proposal. in this instance we are very mindful of the impact of debts up to eur 10 000 being unpaid to uk small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the effort and costs of recovering such sums, and ukip is therefore minded not to oppose this report. ukip decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as it is important in terms of securing access to justice more efficiently across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given its importance in terms of securing access to justice more efficiently across the eu. it will do this by increasing the threshold of what is considered a ‘small claim’ to eur 5 000, with a five-year review clause in order to see whether a further increase is possible; encouraging the use of long-distance communication and video-conferencing for hearings; establishing a five-year review clause in order to assess the possibility of including labour claims in the scope of the regulation; making court fees proportionate to the claim; and providing for free of charge assistance for the use of the procedure. it is to be noted that this will not affect the current legal status in the uk, where the threshold for application is higher than the eur 5 000 set out in the directive.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrat group, i voted in favour of this report. i did so because i believe in the aims of the report. it will make access to legal aid easier and reduce the burden for the less advantaged in society. it is great to see agreement between parliament and the council on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. the european small claims procedure can be successful only if consumers and businesses, courts, and associations providing advice are aware of it. evidence quoted by the commission shows that 86% of citizens and almost half of the courts have never heard of the procedure. it is therefore crucial that the commission continue its efforts to provide information on the european small claims procedure, in particular via the e-justice portal. it is equally important that the member states complement the commission’s efforts through national awareness-raising campaigns. furthermore, consumers and businesses need very concrete information on how to use the procedure in practice and what it would cost. it therefore makes sense for the member states to provide information on court fees and methods of payment for the european small claims procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is important in terms of securing access to justice more efficiently across the eu. this will not affect the current legal status in the uk, where the threshold for application is higher than the eur 5 000 set out in the directive.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as i do not believe the eu has a competency in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report not only to support my socialist colleagues, but also because i believe in the aims of the report. it will make access to legal aid easier and reduce the burden for the less advantaged in society. it is great to see agreement between parliament and the council on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, intended to improve upon and widen the scope of the european small claims procedure as created by regulation (ec) no 861/2007. this is important in securing access to justice more efficiently across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this final agreement at the vote today: it will provide support to consumers and smes by ensuring they have effective redress in cross-border, small claim situations, and it will simplify the process by reducing burdens in procedures and evidence taking.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of this. the legislation for small claims needed to be updated for the 21st century by raising the amount that may be considered a small claim towards the higher british threshold and encouraging the use of long distance communication. this legislation takes us towards a more efficient and harmonious transnational system for dealing with small claims. furthermore a 5-year review clause has been brought forward to look at making the court more accessible, by making charges proportionate to the claim being sought and free-of-charge assistance for the use of the procedure. there will also be a review about bringing labour matters within the purview of the court. these are all positive developments towards greater access to justice across europe that i fully support.
mr president, i voted in favour of the grzyb report, given that it is key to the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu. recent research shows that the death toll from air pollution in the uk is much higher than the 30 000 deaths previously estimated. in the whole of europe, 500 000 people die prematurely as a result of air pollution every year. this places a huge burden on our societies. in this context, i also want to say a couple of words about the volkswagen diesel emission scam, which is simply outrageous, precisely because of the detrimental impact on people’s health. to end this situation, in which our citizens are paying with their lives for the criminal behaviour of large corporates that seek profits at any price, we need the commission to establish an independent eu type-approval authority. volkswagen has made it clear that the current system in which car makers pay national testing organisations and choose themselves where they have their models tested simply is not working.
mr president, i voted against this and will vote against every single piece of environmental and energy legislation coming out of the european union, because it kills jobs. let us go back to the large combustion plant directive: hundreds of jobs were lost in tilbury. and look at the redcar plant: jobs lost last week. when will you stop this constant stream of legislation that is costing skilled jobs? what do you expect people to do when they lose their jobs in skilled industry – to go and work in poundland? it is a disgrace. anyone who voted for this legislation and anyone who votes for other legislation like it should explain to the people who have lost their jobs why they are in this position and why they did it. instead of posturing and trying to appease your own consciences, look at the fact that you are creating a trail of misery in british communities where there used to be heavy industry and now there is not. so one lesson that i want to leave with you all is that you have created mass unemployment by pushing forward this legislation that kills jobs and kills british industry.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air. this vote concerned the drafting of new eu legislation intended to regulate medium combustion plants in europe. there are approximately 150 000 medium combustion plants in europe and they are used for a wide variety of applications (including electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and providing heat/steam for industrial processes). we in ukip believe in the importance of improving air quality in europe. we oppose the eu commission’s proposal to draft new eu legislation in this field. therefore we oppose a new eu directive which, covering all medium combustion plants, would impose unjustified burdens on our industry and economy. we do not believe this is a matter that should be regulated by the unelected eu commission. we also oppose the establishment of a mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants. nonetheless, today we supported all exceptions to the application of the directive proposed by the rapporteur in order to alleviate the impact of this over-prescriptive regulation.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the importance of improvements in air quality. however, i take issue specifically with the proposed mandatory eu registration scheme which puts power in the hands of the european union – power which could and should be exercised by nation-states. equally, the block vote on amendments 1 to 86 is a matter of some concern to me; block votes on matters impacting on legislation are inappropriate in my view. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air. this vote concerned the drafting of new eu legislation intended to regulate medium combustion plants in europe. there are approximately 150 000 medium combustion plants in europe and they are used for a wide variety of applications (including electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and providing heat/steam for industrial processes). we in ukip believe in the importance of improving air quality in europe. we oppose the eu commission’s proposal to draft new eu legislation in this field. therefore we oppose a new eu directive which, covering all medium combustion plants, would impose unjustified burdens on our industry and economy. we do not believe this is a matter that should be regulated by the unelected eu commission. we also oppose the establishment of a mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants. nonetheless, today we supported all exceptions to the application of the directive proposed by the rapporteur in order to alleviate the impact of this over-prescriptive regulation.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air. this vote concerned the drafting of new eu legislation intended to regulate medium combustion plants in europe. there are approximately 150 000 medium combustion plants in europe and they are used for a wide variety of applications (including electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and providing heat/steam for industrial processes). we in ukip believe in the importance of improving air quality in europe: we oppose the commission’s proposal to draft new eu legislation in this field. therefore we oppose a new eu directive which, covering all medium combustion plants, would impose unjustified burdens on our industry and economy. we do not believe this is a matter that should be regulated by the unelected eu commission. we also oppose the establishment of a mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants. nonetheless, today we supported all exceptions to the application of the directive proposed by the rapporteur in order to alleviate the impact of this over-prescriptive regulation.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air. this vote concerned the drafting of new eu legislation intended to regulate medium combustion plants in europe. there are approximately 150 000 medium combustion plants in europe and they are used for a wide variety of applications (including electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and providing heat/steam for industrial processes). we in ukip believe in the importance of improving air quality in europe. we oppose the eu commission’s proposal to draft new eu legislation in this field. therefore we oppose a new eu directive which, covering all medium combustion plants, would impose unjustified burdens on our industry and economy. we do not believe this is a matter that should be regulated by the unelected eu commission. we also oppose the establishment of a mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants. nonetheless, today we supported all exceptions to the application of the directive proposed by the rapporteur in order to alleviate the impact of this over-prescriptive regulation.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air. this vote concerned the drafting of new eu legislation intended to regulate medium combustion plants in europe. there are approximately 150,000 medium combustion plants in europe and they are used for a wide variety of applications (including electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and providing heat/steam for industrial processes). we in ukip believe in the importance of improving air quality in europe. we oppose the commission’s proposal to draft new eu legislation in this field. therefore we oppose a new eu directive which, covering all medium combustion plants, would impose unjustified burdens on our industry and economy. we do not believe this is a matter that should be regulated by the unelected commission. we also oppose the establishment of a mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants. nonetheless, today we supported all exceptions to the application of the directive proposed by the rapporteur in order to alleviate the impact of this over-prescriptive regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air. this vote concerned the drafting of new eu legislation intended to regulate medium combustion plants in europe. there are approximately 150,000 medium combustion plants in europe and they are used for a wide variety of applications (including electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and providing heat/steam for industrial processes). we in ukip believe in the importance of improving air quality in europe. we oppose the commission’s proposal to draft new eu legislation in this field. therefore we oppose a new eu directive which, covering all medium combustion plants, would impose unjustified burdens on our industry and economy. we do not believe this is a matter that should be regulated by the unelected commission. we also oppose the establishment of a mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants. nonetheless, today we supported all exceptions to the application of the directive proposed by the rapporteur in order to alleviate the impact of this over-prescriptive regulation.
in writing. ‒ eu legislation in this area has directly impacted on the uk manufacturing sector leading to widespread business closures and unemployment. i am completely unable to support any further legislation which will continue this trend. redcar might still be open and its workers employed but for eu interference such as this.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it is a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is important for several reasons. firstly, according to the commission impact assessment, air pollution is estimated to lead to more than 400,000 premature deaths per year and health costs of up to €940 billion. it also contributes to significant environmental degradation, with 62% of the eu area exposed to eutrophication and economic damage such as €15 billion from lost workdays, €4bn in healthcare costs, €3bn in crop yield loss and €1bn in damage to buildings. secondly, reducing emissions from medium combustion plants can contribute to achieving the eu climate and energy targets, in reducing greenhouse gases, improving energy efficiency and promoting renewables. by acting now and filling the current regulatory gap, we can provide clear signals for investments and provide further incentives for research and innovation in breakthrough technologies. this will create conditions for european businesses to lead in green innovation, with enormous potential in export markets. for example, air pollution alone costs china 12-13% of gdp every year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because i do not wish for the eu to create more legislation in this field. i also oppose the proposed mandatory eu registration scheme to be applied to all new plants. i do however recognise the importance of improving air quality.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses very well the problem of poor air quality. i voted for this report because poor air quality is a serious threat to health and to the environment. we need to move towards a credible eu climate policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu. the report will improve environmental standards and although it will increase costs in certain areas the benefits far outweigh these. furthermore, jobs in sectors where costs were deemed disproportionate (e.g. offshore oil and gas in scotland) have been protected by specific exemptions and derogations. therefore this legislation balances economic well-being with the overwhelming need to act now to save our planet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the la via report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. we believe in preserving the health and well-being of citizens by guaranteeing transparency when it comes to the ingredients of the food they consume. we also support food business operators and understand their need to have all the necessary information at their disposal when labelling the final products, especially when it comes to allergens. however, the reasoning behind this vote concerned the alignment of the powers conferred upon the commission by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which we are not prepared to support. we do not believe that these issues should be defined at an eu level. we oppose the drafting of further eu legislation and we believe that each member state should have the autonomy to decide whether and how to legislate on these issues. we believe in the right of sovereign nations to establish their own policies.
in writing. ‒ i believe in transparency in food labelling. therefore, it follows that i also believe that food business operators must have the information they need in order to be able to provide the relevant information for the final product. as a nut allergy sufferer myself, i recognise the issues specifically surrounding allergens. my only concern is that this should be coming not from the european union but from member states.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the la via report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. we believe in preserving the health and well-being of citizens by guaranteeing transparency when it comes to the ingredients of the food they consume. we also support food business operators and understand their need to have all the necessary information at their disposal when labelling the final products, especially when it comes to allergens. however, the reasoning behind this vote concerned the alignment of the powers conferred upon the commission by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which we are not prepared to support. we do not believe that these issues should be defined at an eu level. we oppose the drafting of further eu legislation and we believe that each member state should have the autonomy to decide whether and how to legislate on these issues. we believe in the right of sovereign nations to establish their own policies.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the la via report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. we believe in preserving the health and well-being of citizens by guaranteeing transparency when it comes to the ingredients of the food they consume. we also support food business operators and understand their need to have all the necessary information at their disposal when labelling the final products, especially when it comes to allergens. however, the reasoning behind this vote concerned the alignment of the powers conferred upon the commission by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which we are not prepared to support. we do not believe that these issues should be defined at an eu level. we oppose the drafting of further eu legislation and we believe that each member state should have the autonomy to decide whether and how to legislate on these issues. we believe in the right of sovereign nations to establish their own policies.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the la via report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. we believe in preserving the health and well-being of citizens by guaranteeing transparency when it comes to the ingredients of the food they consume. we also support food business operators and understand their need to have all the necessary information at their disposal when labelling the final products, especially when it comes to allergens. however, the reasoning behind this vote concerned the alignment of the powers conferred upon the commission by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which we are not prepared to support. we do not believe that these issues should be defined at an eu level. we oppose the drafting of further eu legislation and we believe that each member state should have the autonomy to decide whether and how to legislate on these issues. we believe in the right of sovereign nations to establish their own policies.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the la via report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. we believe in preserving the health and well-being of citizens by guaranteeing transparency when it comes to the ingredients of the food they consume. we also support food business operators and understand their need to have all the necessary information at their disposal when labelling the final products, especially when it comes to allergens. however, the reasoning behind this vote concerned the alignment of the powers conferred upon the commission by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which we are not prepared to support. we do not believe that these issues should be defined at an eu level. we oppose the drafting of further eu legislation and we believe that each member state should have the autonomy to decide whether and how to legislate on these issues. we believe in the right of sovereign nations to establish their own policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it finally brings eu regulation into line with who standards. i support the commission’s objective of bringing the eu to international world standards so that member states are not at a disadvantage. this will also help clarify the existing rules on food safety for both consumers and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which is a technical report designed to update the existing legislation in the field of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. the proposal will have little impact on business as it is not introducing new legislation, only consolidating existing legislation into the directive to clarify and simplify existing rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which is a technical report designed to update the existing legislation in the field of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. the proposal will have little impact on business as it is not introducing new legislation, only consolidating existing legislation into the directive to clarify and simplify existing rules.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the la via report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. we believe in preserving the health and well-being of citizens by guaranteeing transparency when it comes to the ingredients of the food they consume. we also support food business operators and understand their need to have all the necessary information at their disposal when labelling the final products, especially when it comes to allergens. however, the reasoning behind this vote concerned the alignment of the powers conferred upon the commission by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which we are not prepared to support. we do not believe that these issues should be defined at an eu level. we oppose the drafting of further eu legislation and we believe that each member state should have the autonomy to decide whether and how to legislate on these issues. we believe in the right of sovereign nations to establish their own policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour the report, as the proposal brings compositional and quality standards for caseins into line with the international standard to enable food business operators to operate on a level playing field internationally.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to be seen in the context of the general food law (regulation (ec) no 178/2002) which aims at granting the free movement of safe and wholesome food, thereby significantly contributing to the health and well-being of citizens. in this respect, it should also be ensured that consumers are appropriately informed as regards the food they consume. although the products covered by the proposal (caseins and caseinates) are not meant to be sold to the final consumer, but only from business to business for the preparation of food products, it is important for the food business operators to dispose of the information they need for the labelling of the final products, especially when it comes to allergens. for this reason, the proposal includes provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption (article 5). in case the mandatory information laid out therein does not appear on the packages, containers or labels, such products may not be placed on the market as edible caseins or caseinates or used for the preparation of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which will enable food business operators to operate on a level playing field internationally. the proposal brings compositional and quality standards for caseins into line with the international standard.
in writing. ‒ the new directive replacing directive 83/417/eec is intended to level up eu legislation concerning certain lactoproteins (caseins and caseinates) creating a more level playing field regarding food laws. by repealing existing laws this allows for the implementation of more recent legislation on food law. this proposal is part of the commission’s refit programme designed to align existing law with the delegated and implementing powers conferred on the commission by the lisbon treaty. the idea of providing the commission with the ability to repeal existing laws would have negative implications for the uk. this proposal would align europe with international legislation and who standards. i have always advocated cutting back on red tape proposed by the commission. in this case, the agreement allows for current eu requirements for edible caseins to become more flexible at an international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i do not believe that these issues should be defined at eu level. i oppose the creation of any new eu legislation. i do, however, believe in transparency when it comes to the ingredients in our food.
in writing. ‒ following the successful vote on this report in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, it is with great pleasure that i can follow up the work of giovanni la via with another vote of approval in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal, intended to update the current legislation on caseins and caseinates and ensure compositional and quality standards conform to the international standard. this will enable food business operators to operate on a level playing field internationally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this final agreement, which provides for the commission to repeal existing laws relating to certain lactoproteins (caseins and caseinates) and to replace them with a new directive. i broadly support the refit programme and i support measures such as this, which will level up current eu practice in food law to international world health organisation standards.
in writing. ‒ we support amendments that relate to tackling fraud and meeting the criteria of transparency. amendments relating to terrorism, human trafficking and child labour; we fully support these amendments that protect nations and individuals from danger. we do not agree with social and labour laws that are being imposed. we have to agree with the tightening of procedures that combat fraud, tax evasion and embezzlement of union funds. there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws, and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles. there is concern relating to amendments dealing with procurement issues. the committee on foreign affairs has stated that procurement rules recognise the aims and objectives of the common security and defence policy (csdp) so that eu military and civilian operations have the resources to fulfil the objectives of the csdp. the protection of whistleblowers and their fundamental rights is something that we can support due to the fact that we can highlight the failings of the eu in certain matters relating to the management of the budget. ukip voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this report aimed to make access to eu funds simpler, more accountable and efficient whilst also addressing misappropriation and white-collar crime through the introduction of exclusion criteria and a panel to investigate claims. it also aligns the financial regulation with the new directives on public procurement and on the awarding of concession contracts by the eu institutions. contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions. regarding exclusion criteria, these were added to counter tax fraud, tax evasion – including tax evasion via untaxed offshore structures – the misuse of corporate assets and the embezzlement of public funds to exclude from participation in the procurement procedures of eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution as a ‘best fit’. i support the principle of tightening up on financial rules to limit waste, mismanagement and fraud, and i commend the changes in that respect. nevertheless, i cannot support much of the remaining text which supports current eu activities. i note in particular the positivity shown in the report towards the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ we support amendments that relate to tackling fraud and meeting the criteria of transparency. amendments relating to terrorism, human trafficking and child labour; we fully support these amendments that protect nations and individuals from danger. we do not agree with social and labour laws that are being imposed. we have to agree with the tightening of procedures that combat fraud, tax evasion and the embezzlement of union funds. there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles. there is concern relating to amendments dealing with procurement issues. the committee on foreign affairs has stated that procurement rules recognise the aims and objectives of the common security and defence policy so that eu military and civilian operations have the resources to fulfil the objectives of the csdp. the protection of whistle-blowers and their fundamental rights is something that we can support due to the fact that we can highlight the failings of the eu in certain matters relating to the management of the budget. ukip voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i support amendments that relate to tackling fraud and meeting the criteria of transparency. amendments relating to terrorism, human trafficking and child labour; i fully support these amendments that protect nations and individuals from danger. i do not agree with social and labour laws that are being imposed. we have to agree with the tightening of procedures that combat fraud, tax evasion and embezzlement of union funds. there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws, and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles. there is concern relating to amendments dealing with procurement issues. the committee on foreign affairs has stated that procurement rules recognise the aims and objectives of the common security and defence policy (csdp) so that eu military and civilian operations have the resources to fulfil the objectives of the csdp. the protection of whistleblowers and their fundamental rights is something that i can support due to the fact that we can highlight the failings of the eu in certain matters relating to the management of the budget. i voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we support amendments that relate to tackling fraud and meeting the criteria of transparency. amendments relating to terrorism, human trafficking and child labour; we fully support these amendments that protect nations and individuals from danger. we do not agree with social and labour laws that are being imposed. we have to agree with the tightening of procedures that combat fraud, tax evasion and embezzlement of union funds. there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws, environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles. there is concern relating to amendments dealing with procurement issues. the committee on foreign affairs has stated that procurement rules recognise the aims and objectives of the common security and defence policy so that eu military and civilian operations have the resources to fulfil the objectives of the csdp. the protection of whistle-blowers and their fundamental rights is something that we can support due to the fact that we can highlight the failings of the eu in certain matters relating to the management of the budget. ukip voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ when, all across the european union, governments and individuals are having to cut back budgets, implement difficult measures and save money, does the rapporteur agree that the continuation of financing a separate parliament in strasbourg is a complete waste of taxpayers’ money?
in writing. – we support amendments that relate to tackling fraud and meeting the criteria of transparency. amendments relating to terrorism, human trafficking and child labour; we fully support these amendments that protect nations and individuals from danger. we do not agree with social and labour laws that are being imposed. we have to agree with the tightening of procedures that combat fraud, tax evasion and the embezzlement of union funds. there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles. there is concern relating to amendments dealing with procurement issues. the committee on foreign affairs has stated that procurement rules recognise the aims and objectives of the common security and defence policy so that eu military and civilian operations have the resources to fulfil the objectives of the csdp. the protection of whistle-blowers and their fundamental rights is something that we can support due to the fact that we can highlight the failings of the eu in certain matters relating to the management of the budget. ukip voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to align the financial regulation with the new directives on concessions and public procurements. important elements included in this report include: principles of sustainability, alongside value for money; re-emphasis of environmental, social and labour law obligations established by union or national legislation; implementation of recommendations by the court of auditors including more stringent measures to ensure greater added value and contribution towards policy objectives; and re-emphasis of exclusion criteria alongside protection for whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which aligns the financial regulation with new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts awarded by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ we support amendments that relate to tackling fraud and meeting the criteria of transparency. amendments relating to terrorism, human trafficking and child labour; we fully support these amendments that protect nations and individuals from danger. we do not agree with social and labour laws that are being imposed. we have to agree with the tightening of procedures that combat fraud, tax evasion and the embezzlement of union funds. there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles. there is concern relating to amendments dealing with procurement issues. the committee on foreign affairs has stated that procurement rules recognise the aims and objectives of the common security and defence policy so that eu military and civilian operations have the resources to fulfil the objectives of the csdp. the protection of whistle-blowers and their fundamental rights is something that we can support due to the fact that we can highlight the failings of the eu in certain matters relating to the management of the budget. ukip voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as the purpose of this proposal is to align the financial regulation with the new directives on concessions and public procurements.
in writing. ‒ public procurement should serve to ensure that union funds are used in an effective, transparent, and appropriate manner: that being the case, procurement procedures should be moved into cyberspace, as this would save a great deal of money compared with conventional public procurement procedures, as well as making such procedures more accessible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which aligns the financial regulation with new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts awarded by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this legislative resolution. i agree with the amendments that related to transparency. however, there are a number of amendments which would require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour and environmental laws and would require the commission to have more power to enforce certain articles.
in writing. ‒ the proposal that i voted for aligns the financial regulation with the new directives on concessions and public procurement. it will be good to see this enter into force at the beginning of next year.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which aligns the financial regulation with new directives on public procurement and on the awarding of concession contracts by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report shores up the importance of attaining value for money for the european taxpayer, while also highlighting the important roles of environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the union and often enshrined in national legislation. it also reiterates the protection for whistle-blowers to ensure those who put their jobs on the line to alert their fellow citizens are not mistreated. this report also provides a definition of conflicts of interests and grave professional misconduct and procedures surrounding such cases in public procurement and concession contracts.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, nobody in their right mind would not agree that it was a sensible thing to do, back in the 1950s, to get france and germany together round the table to break bread with each other, to have a trade deal and to work as sovereign democratic nations together for peace. all of that was absolutely right and high-minded. sadly, the whole thing has become corrupted. tony blair said that the eu today is no longer about peace, it is about power. how right he was, and how that power has shifted. when kohl and mitterrand came here representing their countries 25 years ago, it was a partnership of equals. but no longer. france is now severely diminished, trapped inside a currency from which, frankly, it cannot recover and the french voice in this relationship and in europe is little more now, frankly, than a pipsqueak. it is an irony, is it not, that a project that was designed to contain german power has now given us a totally german-dominated europe. just look at the euro. germany has a currency that is undervalued by 20% with a growing and massive trade surplus. most growth in the german economy since the collapse of 2008 has indeed been in exports to other eurozone countries, such as your very big arms sales to countries like greece, chancellor merkel. and when we have a general election that says a country like greece wants to change direction, well i am sorry, but that now must be brushed aside because the germans do not want it. in what must count as perhaps the worst piece of public policy seen in modern europe for half a century, when you compounded the already failing and flawed eu common asylum policy by saying to the whole world ‘please come to europe’ – and we saw, frankly, virtually a stampede, and we learn that 80% of those that are coming are not syrian refugees – in fact what you have done is to open the door to young, male, economic migrants, many of whom, i have to say, behave in a rather aggressive manner, quite the opposite to what you would ever expect to see from any refugee. yet when that failure is met by objections from countries like hungary their opinions are crushed. this is not a europe of peace. it is a europe of division. it is a europe of disharmony. it is a europe that is a recipe for resentment. and yet, faced with all this failure, both of you, president hollande and chancellor merkel, said the same thing today. you said europe is not working so we must have more europe: more of the same failing. well, there is, i think, a bright star on the horizon. it is called the british referendum and, given that none of you want to concede britain the ability to take back control of our own borders, a brexit now looks more likely than at any point in modern time. i hope and pray that britain voting to leave the european union will be the beginning of the end of a project which, however noble its original intentions, has gone rotten. (applause from the efdd group)
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i would like to thank commissioner katainen for coming to present the capital markets union (cmu) action plan today, a plan which sets out the ambition to free up capital flows across the eu, and a plan which encourages eu savers to become investors so that they can derive a sustainable income in their old age. beyond all the detail which i am sure we will debate at length in the much needed review of the prospectus directive and the securitisation legislation we are expecting, are several other measures to ensure a more effective single market for financial services. i would suggest that the real measure of success of the cmu will be whether it becomes relevant to all 28 member states, whether those countries of the eu that currently do not have an active and well-functioning capital market develop one, and whether all countries can nurture a culture of investment at both personal and institutional level to fuel investment in their businesses. the international monetary fund (imf) recognised a long time ago that functioning capital markets are a precondition for a thriving economy, and it recognises this measure in its country-specific assessments on an annual basis. therefore, including this kind of criterion in the european semester in a way analogous to that of the imf, will be really important. but the cmu should not solely be about legislation, nor should it be about spending money on new institutions to achieve single supervisors. it should be about cultural change so that investors can take appropriate risk, and so that companies do not see bank loans as the only way to finance investment and growth. achieving diversity in retail financial products available cross-border will be important, but more time-dependent will be securing a more diverse array of funding models for our businesses to access capital, both equity and debt, via our broad capital markets. we need to ensure that while emerging companies do not always get bank financing they can access other forms of capital from our capital markets. european companies need to grow to be competitive. we need to seek best practice, wherever it may have developed, and remove all existing barriers to capital flow.
blue-card question.– a very simple question: you said that you believed that there is regulation which is far too complex. can you give me a specific example of something which is costing taxpayers or perhaps businesses across europe, stopping them from expanding? can you give me one example of that and what you would do to simplify it please?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, opening up capital markets clearly has some potential benefits. if an sme in the east of england, for instance, is able to make its case for funds to a middle-sized german investment fund, or even if a young couple can make their case to a potential mortgage provider from france, then in both cases the consumer may, in theory, get a better deal. and it is also the case that capital may, in general, end up being more efficiently allocated, improving economic outcomes. but there remain many pitfalls in the commission’s approach. why, for instance the grandiose title of capital markets union? there is clearly no realistic prospect of ending all geographic associations between the source of capital and where it is deployed. so to speak of a capital markets union at all is to elevate federalist ideology above practical improvements. in addition, the legal and credit risks run by companies are very different in different eu countries, and disclosing them fully is going to be costly and cumbersome. the head of the german savings banks association has pointed out that corporate bonds are not really worth doing for less than eur 10 million, while large investors are rarely interested in projects under eur 25 million. anecdotal evidence suggests that companies need to be turning over eur 1 billion before the market become seriously interested, so it is hard to make a case that smes will benefit much from a capital markets union. it is the corporates who stand to gain at the margins, and forgive me for not punching the air in wild celebration at that prospect! of course, any proposed financial transaction tax risks undermining even those incremental gains and certainly could harm europe’s biggest and most successful capital market – the city of london. the dependency of the commission’s plans on securitisation will also worry many citizens given that over-securitisation was a key factor in the great financial crash. one does not need a political union for trade, and one does not need it to enable investment across borders. i hope the commission will put aside grandiose schemes and instead be a more modest facilitator for agreements on investment flows between european nations.
mr president, the commission package on the capital markets union makes clear that securitisation is back on the agenda as a strategy for increasing investment in europe – and, for those of us who are not yet ready to forgive and forget the financial crisis of 2008, this sets alarm bells ringing. securitisation is a typical example of the mystification and misleading language in which finance markets abound. rather than offering security, it has historically been used as a technique for concealing risk. it is also likely to serve the inner circle of financiers and to divert investment from the businesses that make up the real economy. with securitisation, market traders created a dangerous game of ‘pass the parcel’ where nobody could be sure whose parcel contained the toxic assets. this gave value to worthless assets, but at great risk to the financial system. this is securitisation: an attempt to pretend that hiding risk is really reducing risk, when it is nothing of the sort. as greens, we will insist that safe securitisation means the loans on which it is based are sound, that it does not involve the tranching of assets with varying levels of risk, and that we do not allow the return of credit default swaps. securitisation was central to the irresponsible and high-risk trading that led to the financial crisis. if we are to prevent such a crisis, with all its devastating consequences, from happening again we must not allow securitisation on the old model to infect our financial markets.
mr president, there is much within the commission’s proposal which i believe is to be welcomed. it should be easier for investors to spend money on infrastructure, something my own group has long championed. measures to make it easier for businesses to provide information about themselves and for investors to access that information are also positive, and it does make sense to try and simplify the process for issuing shares. but, as many others have said, there are areas where caution is necessary. first, the vast majority of smes will continue to be best served by the banking system to provide financing, even with the capital markets union (cmu), so i was encouraged to see the comment from commissioner hill, when he spoke to the brookings institution, that cmu is not and must not be explained as solely a set of measures that will benefit smes. however, in order to truly and sustainably boost growth, far more attention must be paid by the commission firstly to those eu-funded mechanisms intended to support smes becoming investment-ready and, secondly, to the ability and, above all, the willingness of the banking system to finance smes. second, when it comes to the commission’s proposals on securitisation, safety, transparency and simplicity are all relative terms, given the carnage caused to our european finance markets by contagion from security-fuelled financial problems in the us. the commission must err on the side of caution here. third, given that member states’ attempts to level the tax playing field for debt and equity have sometimes provided new mechanisms for tax avoidance, i will be scrutinising this proposal very carefully. above all, the commission should be very wary of those who are using their action plan as an opportunity to push deregulation. some are desperate to return to what they see as the glory days of the 1990s and early 2000s. those people have short memories and very little sense of responsibility.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me first thank members for this excellent debate. i must say that i was positively surprised by the widespread support that the capital markets union (cmu) initiative has received from the various parts of this house. i also recognise and acknowledge that we have to look at the proposals very carefully in order not to create new risks which may destabilise the financial sector in europe. but i am also quite confident that we have learned a lot from the previous financial crisis, not only here in europe but also in the usa and elsewhere. for instance, when it comes to securitisation, there were good points made to the effect that we have to be cautious. but i must say that we have been working very closely on this issue with the european central bank, with the european banking authorities and with the other central banks in europe, so i am quite confident that we have managed to find a good balance between making it possible to take more risk while at the same time keeping a close eye on the stability side of things. so the basic idea of securitisation is, as many members said, is to offer new sources of financing for smes and diversify the financial sector in europe. banks will play a central role in the cmu in the future. they will remain the main source of funding for small firms and entrepreneurs needing working capital or low-level funding. we are also exploring the possibility for all member states to authorise credit unions which operate outside the eu framework on capital requirements for banks, in order to alleviate the regulatory burden on small banks. i would like to thank kay swinburne for her comment when she said that now we are dealing with the issues which are supposed to change the mind-set in europe: let the people become the investor. in some of our member states we have a political culture in which the capital market is seen as the exclusive domain of those who own a lot of capital. but there are other member states in which the culture is more pragmatic, believing that the capital market is part of the market economy, and that we need a well-functioning capital market in order to finance the real economy with real private and public investment, and thus create new jobs. i was very happy to hear this pragmatic approach so strongly represented in this house today. ms hübner raised the issue of impact assessment. this is another example of the very pragmatic approach we have. looking back, we have created around 40 new regulations for the financial sector in the last few years. it is only human and understandable that there may be some unintended side-effects which do not serve anybody’s interest, and therefore it makes sense to collect evidence from the market and from different stakeholders and look to see if there is something which we did not intend when we created new regulations – and if that is the case, we have to change those things. this is not a general policy to deregulate, not at all, but we just want to make sure that our regulations function as we wanted them to function. the sme side is very strong in our action plan. for instance, the proposals for a pan-european venture capital fund of funds and multi-country funds, and also our aim to revise the european venture capital funds (euveca) and social entrepreneurship funds (eusef) legislation are very important, because if you compare the average size of venture capital funds in europe with those in the usa there is a big difference, and this is an unfortunate thing because it tells us directly that the venture capital market is not as well-functioning and developed in europe as it is in the united states. the average size of a european venture capital fund is 60 million whereas the american peer is 280 million. this basically shows the difference and is the reason why – apart from what we are doing with the european fund for strategic investment (efsi), i.e. raising the amount of money which is channelled through the eif to smes and start-ups – we want to look at this regulatory side in order to encourage venture capital funds to grow in europe. focus will also be put on long-term infrastructure investment, and there one of the first proposals is to adjust solvency ii calibrations for insurance investment in infrastructure and long-term investment funds. this, again, can be one of the quick wins which will release a large amount of capital for productive, concrete infrastructure projects that are desperately needed in europe. madam president, many colleagues mentioned something about the level of ambition. i would like to measure our joint level of ambition by how quickly we deliver. as i mentioned before, we managed to decide on the efsi regulation in only six months. now we are dealing with the solvency ii framework proposal and the securitisation proposal, why should we spend more time with these proposals? i know that it does not depend only on this house but also on the political will of the european council. so i hope that we can put these proposals as high up on our priority list as we put the efsi a few months ago. because these proposals create new opportunities, they create new markets, they will release a big amount of capital which already exists there in the market for productive investment. this is the cheapest way to stimulate the economy and that is why i hope that people like mr gualtieri, for example, who is chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, will bring all their political weight to bear to deal with these important issues. i know that you understand the value of these proposals and i got the picture that many of our colleagues share our view.
madam president, i did not wish to interrupt the debate previously so i saved these points of order until the end. i am rising under rule 11(2) as interpreted in annex xv of the rules of procedure, which is quite clear that the signs that are placed on desks are allowed, and indeed my colleague mr batten has a letter from mr schulz which confirms this. earlier, after mr hollande left the chamber, one of the meps from across the other side came across here, took signs from the five star movement and from my party, ukip, took them off the desks and threw them angrily on the floor. i would just ask whether it would be possible for you to look at the video of that, and – even if i understand it may not be something that requires a sanction – at the very least that an apology be requested and that the rules be respected in the future.
madam president, the second point along the same lines is that, following that situation, one of the ushers then came round and removed all of the signs from the desks and took them away. that included one that was right in front of me here in my seat, and she came through, took the sign as she had everyone else’s, and also took those of the gue group. that is not acceptable either, and i would just ask that, if possible, appropriate training be given. the ushers actually do a very good job in this place usually, but this is our private property which has been taken and we would like it back please.
madam president, the 2010 red mud disaster in hungary was a tragedy for the people affected and for the hungarian nation, and on behalf of the efdd group i would like to express once again our sympathies for those still living with injuries, and our condolences for those who lost loved ones. as is always the case, whilst it would be easy to jump on the regulation bandwagon, we believe that we should be more cautious and objective in our analysis of how this disaster came to be. after any tragedy, the media attention and public outcry places a certain pressure on politicians to be seen to do something, and new regulation is the way that politicians traditionally respond. but introducing new regulation, whilst often the popular short-term solution, is often the most damaging thing that politicians can do for the long-term stability of an industry and the society that it serves. we remain committed to ensuring that every industry is as safe as it can be, but also recognising that risk requires an assessment, and any regulations imposed on an industry need to be measured, and the impact on that industry – indeed, whether it can actually survive the introduction of new regulation – needs to be carefully considered. the hungarian people were the ones affected by this disaster, and it should be for their elected representatives in their parliament to determine how best to avoid a similar disaster in the future, and not for the unelected commission to impose its will on an entire industry and an entire people, potentially at the cost of that entire industry and the jobs that it sustains. in this case the medicine will kill the patient.
mr president, energy security is a major challenge for europe. in the uk, dependency on imports, in particular of natural gas, has increased significantly over the last years. in this context, i would like to stress that solutions to energy security include deepening market integration, strengthening our efforts on energy efficiency and promoting the development of renewables. doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline has several implications which crucially need to be evaluated by the commission. first, mr arias cañete, the commission must ensure that the project complies with eu laws on energy markets. i am also urging the commission to investigate urgently what the doubling of the pipeline’s capacity will mean for the central and eastern european countries. it is in our interests to find a comprehensive solution for energy security which will benefit all member states. i am not convinced that this project is part of the solution.
author.– mr president, we are here on the late shift but we are here to discuss what is still a very important issue, and i know you all agree about that. we wanted this debate tonight because we want to see a real commitment from the commission and the member states to a step change on gender equality and women’s empowerment in development. we want to see agenda action taken seriously, not just paid lip service to by our institutions. we know we need a step change because the commission’s own evaluation of the last programme says, and i quote, ‘the results were very patchy and poorly documented’, and ‘the results are the accomplishments of committed individuals, rather than an organisational response’. so we do need to see change, but i am afraid i have got to start tonight’s comments on a negative note. our draft resolution called on the commission to produce a new gender action plan (gap) as a communication to give a strong political signal about that need for that step change; a message that gender matters and women’s empowerment should be higher on the agenda of development policy. we also made that call about the need for communication because we heard rumours, which unfortunately turned out to be true, that the commission wanted to publish the new gap as a staff working document, not as a communication, as had previously been intended. indeed, the day after our committee vote the commission published a staff working document on gender. now i have spoken to people in the commission and i have heard their arguments. they do not want to be seen to be churning out communications one after another, and some think that talking about the status of the document amount to quibbling. but when you turn to the evaluation of the last programme, i think you will see why we need to make sure the document is taken seriously: the evaluation says that incentives to motivate staff in the commission and the external action service, both in brussels and in the delegations, and to take gender and women’s empowerment seriously, were missing. there was a failure to do that. if we had had a communication, it would have been adopted by the entire college of commissioners: it would have sent a strong message to ambassadors in our delegations that this is a policy of the european commission, not a staff working document. so downgrading the gender action plan, commissioner, was not the wisest way in which to start a discussion within the commission on streamlining your work. i suppose we are where we are tonight – and commissioner timmermans has assured us that he is a feminist and is fully committed to the new framework. i know that commissioner mimica, commissioner stylianides and the presidency of the council, indeed the council as a whole, are very committed on this. so on the details of our resolution, what we want now are concrete policies, coupled with financial resources. we want gender equality to be a core business of the delegations, with more emphasis on reporting, monitoring and evaluation. we want it to be part of the human rights dialogue with third countries and we want action on programing on education, on violence against women and girls, on ending discriminatory practices, on equal pay and decent work. we want action on maternal health, access to health care and – i would personally add – a clear affirmation of sexual and reproductive health and rights. so commissioner, what i want to hear from you is about how the plans for funding are going to be put in place and how we are going to do the concrete follow-up on this action plan, or framework as you are now calling it. finally, we have got to see this discussion in the context of the wider work on the sustainable development goals signed up to two weeks ago in new york. goal 5 is about how to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls, and there are nine targets. we need to translate those targets into actions here, and we need to add indicators in order to do that. people are saying we need a data revolution and we need dis-aggregated data. if we do not count women and girls, if we do not know what is happening to them, we will not be able to change their lives. the real test of whether our policies work will be whether women and girls in developing countries feel the change. in new york we all pledged ourselves to leaving nobody behind, and now we have got an opportunity to put that into practice. i think you have the support of this house, commissioner, to do the right thing on the gender action plan.
mr president, i fully support action for women’s empowerment and welcome the renewal of the eu plan of action on gender equality, and i would like to support ms mcavan’s call to elevate its importance within the commission’s administration. this is clearly vital if we are going to get action taken. the ecr group and the uk conservatives are committed to putting girls and women at the centre of international development. we believe that investing in girls and women has a transformative impact on growth, poverty reduction and achieving the critical millennium development goals. while welcoming the renewal of the plan, i do have some reservations. i am not comfortable with over-emphasis on information and methodology: i would much rather see us spending our efforts – and indeed our money – on actual action. i firmly believe in the principle of aid effectiveness – that is, focusing on a results-based approach – and i support the approach of the uk government as developed in its multilateral aid review, which identifies the need to strengthen gender mainstreaming in practice. this is the most important aspect.
mr president, i would like to thank linda mcavan for the work she has been doing. we have always seen european equality as including gender equality. so it is essential that we keep this is a central point of our strategies in developing countries, particularly this year as we come forward with the sustainable development goals. women must be free of the threat of violence, and we must plan for that in our strategies. we know of the sexual violence inflicted on women in conflict areas: in nigeria by boko haram; in the democratic republic of the congo; the rape and worse, in syria, of women in refugee camps fleeing war. the list goes on. but it is a sad biological fact that many pregnancies result from this violence. the commission has now confirmed to meps that international humanitarian law and/or human rights law may justify offering a safe abortion, rather than perpetuating what amounts to inhumane treatment. women’s health and their ability to access support and protection include their ability to exercise their sexual and reproductive rights. this is essential to female freedom and empowerment. we must ensure that women retain access to sexual and reproductive rights and, if necessary, safe and legal abortions. this must remain part of the eu’s support for women in conflict areas and for women fleeing violence.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, equal treatment of men and women is a fundamental value of eu law, and the principle of equal pay has been enshrined in the treaties since 1957. despite this long-standing commitment to equality, progress remains far too slow. the gender pay gap and gender pension gap still show significant differences. it is gender that we are talking about, not biological sex. women are in effect punished because of society’s expectations that they will bear children, regardless of whether they have them or not. single women without children earn less than their male colleagues. marriage and children are irrelevant to women’s earning potential. women earn less whether they have husbands or children or not. as the gender pay gap stands, on average european women work 60 days without pay compared to european men. employers might think this is good value, but it is shocking that it still happens. the best way to tackle wage inequality is to improve wage transparency but, despite years of various instruments, the problem persists. the time has now come for stronger action. we need mandatory wage transparency and committed action from governments and businesses alike. large companies listed on the stock exchanges in member states should be obliged to publish their data so that employees can see for themselves whether they are getting a fair deal. they already have to publish other financial data, so this requirement is not too onerous. on a related point, we have to protect the independence and funding of national equality bodies, which assist in cases of unfair treatment, and we must likewise protect them from political interference. i am also delighted to see language in this report ensuring that trans people are protected under equality legislation. a recent study found that one third of trans people reported discrimination when seeking employment at work. trans women earn 20% less than their other female colleagues and they are punished doubly for being a woman and for being trans. we need improved trans-inclusive diversity training and legal gender recognition across our member states, as well as equality for women in the labour market now.
blue-card question.– i would just like to ask the speaker this: you used the term ‘housewife’ and you are in the s&d group – are you aware that this is a politically incorrect term? if i was to use the word ‘housewife’ in britain i would be branded as a woman hater.
blue-card question.– after that speech, which i agree with very much in many parts, i was wondering if you would agree with me how remarkable it is that, every time we speak about equalities in this place, it is never mentioned that the new people who come to this continent, the migrants from other parts of the world, have vastly different ways of looking at equality between men and women. maybe that should be addressed when people come here: the fact that they come from totally different cultures. that is an area that does not even get discussed: the fact that women are treated far more as inferior in the places they come from.
blue-card question.– i am a bit confused because i looked at your group yesterday and the day before, and there were ‘refugees welcome’ signs on your front tables. do you not agree with me that violence against women will increase if we allow more and more people into this continent from countries where the words of a woman are, in some cases, worth only half of those of a man, and which generally treat women in an appalling fashion? do you not agree with me that if we allow more people to come to this continent from muslim countries in the middle east violence against women will naturally increase?
mr president, i say to the house: the members all seem in a pretty confused state to me. you do not really know what it is you want. you have now started to contradict yourselves completely – which i know is absolutely nothing new for this place, but now it is so blatant. in paragraph 34, you call for eu gender-neutral job classifications and evaluation systems, yet, in paragraph 13, you demand the introduction of binding gender quotas. so what is it? jobs based on the gender of a person, or jobs irrespective of the gender? do you want to fight discrimination or don’t you? in paragraph 37, you call for eu mandatory pay audits for listed companies in order to obtain gender data. you call for the introduction of sanctions at eu level that would exclude companies from procurement of goods and services financed with public subsidies. so are you saying that you want the eu to block companies from using public goods, services and money if there is not an appropriate gender balance? in paragraph 41, you call for a reversal in the burden of proof between employer and employee. are you aware that this would require a complete alteration in the uk judicial system? shall we just throw away the concept of innocent until proven guilty? finally, in paragraph 50, you want the eu to conduct a study on the situations of working mothers, mothers who choose to stay at home and women without children who have made the choice to work. and why? to find out how each affects the labour market. it is almost as if you want to belittle those who do not conform to your view of what the role of a woman should be. please do something useful. let us talk about female genital mutilation; let us talk about forced marriage; let us speak out about abuses of women across the world. but, please, stop wasting all of our time.
in writing.– in paragraph 13 there is a call for the women on boards directive to be adopted, which includes gender quotas. the eu has absolutely no right to impose gender quotas on uk companies. quotas are demeaning for women, and recruitment should be based solely on merit, not on gender. you do not fight discrimination with more discrimination. calls for eu mandatory pay audits and eu sanctions, in paragraph 37, shows once again that the eu is trying to interfere and take more powers where it has no right to them. paragraph 41 states that you want to see a reversal in the burden of proof between employer and employee. this would rip up the justice system in the uk and do away with the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’. ukip, of course, supports gender equality, equal pay and any steps to fight discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, religion, orientation or any other characteristics. everyone should have the same protection and the same opportunities to prove what they can do. ukip cannot, however, support calls for more eu legislation and interference in uk laws and freedoms. only our elected and accountable government should be able to decide these things, not unelected eu bureaucrats.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, it is all very well for the commission to highlight the problem of geo-blocking and to pose as a consumer champion, but arguably the commission itself deserves to be ranked as the geo-blocker in chief. over-regulation by the commission has made it much more difficult than it need be for smes to sell abroad. the recent vat mini one-stop shop (vat moss) measure is a case in point: smes have to pay this tax on e-commerce sales in every single member country that they sell to, and the result has been a mass withdrawal of micro-businesses from export markets and a consequent narrowing of consumer choice. far too often, the commission, as well as the eu in general, becomes the problem rather than the solution. i do not doubt that it wishes to do good; i do ask that it opens its eyes to the harm it is doing in practice to the prosperity of what is fast becoming the world’s economically least dynamic continent.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i welcome this resolution on the situation in thailand. since the military coup in may 2014, hundreds of people have been arbitrarily arrested and detained. sweeping and unchecked powers have been given to the military, as has been mentioned. media outlets and websites have been censored and the rights of freedom of expression and peaceful assembly have been massively restricted. i am particularly concerned about the situation of andy hall, a british human rights defender. mr hall faces seven years in prison and a multi-million-pound fine simply for conducting research for a report by a human rights group. the report highlighted abuses of migrant workers in thailand by a thai company called natural fruits. the charges made against andy hall are utterly unfounded and he appears to have received this treatment simply because he had the temerity to expose labour exploitation. i call on the thai authorities to adhere to their human rights obligations and to drop all charges against mr hall.
author.– madam president, it is a tragic irony that, at a time when saudi arabia is being appointed to head an influential committee of the un human rights council, at home it is sentencing teenagers to death by beheading for the so-called crime of protesting. today’s debate focuses on the case of ali mohammed al-nimr, but only yesterday reports emerged of a second teenager, dawood al-marhoon, who is facing a similar fate. al-nimr remains in prison, a place he has been since he was arrested in 2012, aged only 17, and faces imminent execution. it seems, though, that this is not only about alleged crimes, but also about saudi arabia’s wider sectarian war. al-nimr comes from a shiite area and his uncle is a distinguished shiite cleric. there is little coincidence that al—marhoon is also a shia. these cases are particularly shocking, but they are only two cases in an extensive catalogue of human rights abuses in the kingdom of saudi arabia. the country’s criminal justice system is the perfect blueprint for any repressive authoritarian state. i called last week on the king of saudi arabia to pardon al-nimr. today i repeat these calls for both him and al—marhoon.
author.– madam president, ali mohammed al-nimr was arrested and tortured for being part of the arab spring. it must not be allowed to die; he must not be allowed to die. the true bravery in this case is that of ali himself in the face of a horrible death. the saudi authorities must allow him to live and uphold the right to peaceful protest in their country. saudi arabia chairs the un human rights council’s expert panel, but it is breaching its legal obligations under the un convention on the rights of the child. it is a country which is condemning an increasing number of young people to death while europe is demanding a moratorium. there is well-founded suspicion that ali has been condemned to this fate only because he comes from the family of a shia cleric who is himself a dissident. last year in this chamber i spoke on the agreement on counter-terrorism between the european union and saudi arabia. this parliament voted that it must be subject to respect for human rights. today all reports suggest that this is a boy who has been sentenced to death as a terrorist on the basis of evidence that has been withheld, who has been tortured while under treatment, and who signed a confession under duress and was tried in secret. it is sickening that my own country’s government is bidding to provide services for the very same saudi prison service which will be responsible for inflicting the death penalty. britain and our european partners want good relations with saudi arabia. but today we must ask if the treatment of ali al-nimr is consistent with the assurances given about the relationship we have. if those promises are to mean anything they must mean ali’s life. ali was a child: let him be a man.
madam president, this is simply an oral amendment because the commission has now published what they are terming a ‘staff working document’ on gender. so it is to update the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposed directive. the payment services directive is an important piece of legislation which creates new prospects for smes and budding start-ups by opening up the banking industry to what are known as third-party providers (tpps). not only does this create more employment and business opportunities but it also allows for more consumer choice. colleagues of mine have worked on this proposal on behalf of the gue/ngl group for a number of months and have been proactively involved in the negotiations leading up to this vote. our focus was to engage in trilogues to ensure that sustainable economic growth and growth-friendly fiscal measures were the core aims. during discussions in preparatory meetings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the need to break the dominance of the big banks, which currently control the payments market to the detriment of small businesses and budding entrepreneurs, was highlighted. moreover, we sought to ensure that the legislation would strengthen consumer protection and regulate operators who previously functioned with no regulatory or supervisory framework. all competitors will now be forced to comply with the financial rules, which is crucial for any economy. it was for these reasons i voted in favour of this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i have no option but to vote against anything which provides the unelected commission with the power to issue delegated acts. i also note the interference in freedom of contract shown in article 62, and the suggestion of ‘full harmonisation’ in article 107.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the second payment services directive because it interferes in freedom of contract, grants the commission power to issue delegated acts and demands ‘full harmonisation’ in a way that prevents the uk from having its own approach to such matters.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the second payment services directive because it interferes in freedom of contract, grants the commission power to issue delegated acts and demands ‘full harmonisation’ in a way that prevents the uk from having its own approach to such matters.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the second payment services directive because it interferes in freedom of contract, grants the commission power to issue delegated acts and demands ‘full harmonisation’ in a way that prevents the uk from having its own approach to such matters.
in writing. – ukip voted against the second payment services directive because it interferes in freedom of contract, grants the commission power to issue delegated acts and demands ‘full harmonisation’ in a way that prevents the uk from having its own approach to such matters.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the second payment services directive because it interferes in freedom of contract, grants the commission power to issue delegated acts and demands ‘full harmonisation’ in a way that prevents the uk from having its own approach to such matters. i have no option but to vote against anything which provides the unelected commission with the power to issue delegated acts. i also note the interference in freedom of contract evident in article 62, and the suggestion of ‘full harmonisation’ in article 107.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report, which will allow to ensure the development of new practices and new actors in payment services while ensuring safety and transparency for consumers. it will make electronic payments safer for consumers and encourage competition and innovation in the market. as we continue to push to stop card schemes and banks from unnecessarily increasing fees we expect savings to be passed on to consumers.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party, i voted in favour of the payment services directive because it will make electronic payments safer for consumers and encourage competition and innovation in the market. as we continue to push to stop card schemes and banks from unnecessarily increasing fees, we expect savings to be passed on to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it will allow to ensure the development of new practices and new actors in payment services while ensuring safety and transparency for consumers.
in writing. ‒ as consumers and undertakings are not in the same position, they do not need the same level of protection. while it is important to guarantee consumer rights by provisions from which it is not possible to derogate by contract, it is reasonable to let undertakings and organisations agree otherwise when they are not dealing with consumers. however, member states should be able to provide that micro-enterprises, as defined in commission recommendation 2003/361/ec, be treated in the same way as consumers. in any case, certain core provisions of this directive should always apply, irrespective of the status of the user.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the payment services directive because it will make electronic payments safer for consumers and encourage competition and innovation in the market. as we continue to push to stop card schemes and banks unnecessarily increasing fees, we expect savings to be passed on to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as i do not wish to see the eu create more legislation in this area. in addition i do not believe that this is an eu competency.
in writing. ‒ as we continue to push to stop card schemes and banks from unnecessarily increasing fees, we expect savings to be passed on to consumers. ultimately, i voted in favour of the payment services directive because it will make electronic payments safer for consumers and encourage competition and innovation in the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the payment services directive because it will make electronic payments safer for consumers and encourage competition and innovation in the market. as we continue to push to stop card schemes and banks from unnecessarily increasing fees, we expect savings to be passed on to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which was concerned with the mass evictions currently taking place across spain and the risky financial instruments which are one of the causes of these evictions. at present, 95 families lose their home every day. this is due to the economic, social and financial crisis. however a majority of the evictions are cause by a combination of abusive practices on the part of financial institutions, a lack of accurate essential information on financial instruments for consumers and insufficient legal protection of mortgage debtors. regarding the abusive practices, 700 000 citizens are estimated to have been sold risky financial instruments by their spanish banks in bad faith. in ireland, where we are also currently experiencing an unprecedented homelessness crisis, we now have 130 000 families in need of housing, and many families forced into bankruptcy. in may of this year, my colleague pearse doherty brought legislation to the dáil which would have allowed the regulator to set a cap on the rates being charged by banks but the irish government voted against it. this is a matter on which my party will continue to fight, both on the european front and at domestic level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because this resolution calls upon the commission to legislate on more than one matter – namely ‘family insolvency’ and harmonisation of mortgage contracts, as well as to determine which financial institutions should be blacklisted. nevertheless, i have sympathy with the situation in spain. i merely believe that it is appropriate for this situation to be resolved through the spanish government rather than legislating for all 28 countries in the european union. it is a classic eu power-grab to suggest that a problem in one nation should require legislation in 28.
in writing. ‒ it should not be the business of the eu to instruct spain on how to treat its own people. this motion for a resolution calls for the commission to do all manner of things, including harmonising mortgage terms across the eu, and seeks to grant the commission the power to decide to blacklist financial institutions. for these reasons ukip voted against it.
in writing. ‒ it should not be the business of the eu to instruct spain on how to treat its own people. this motion for a resolution calls for the commission to do all manner of things, including harmonising mortgage terms across the eu, and seeks to grant the commission the power to decide to blacklist financial institutions. for these reasons ukip voted against it.
in writing. ‒ it should not be the business of the eu to instruct spain on how to treat its own people. this motion for a resolution calls for the commission to do all manner of things, including harmonising mortgage terms across the eu, and seeks to grant the commission the power to decide to blacklist financial institutions. for these reasons ukip voted against it.
in writing. – it should not be the business of the eu to instruct spain on how to treat its own people. this motion for a resolution calls for the commission to do all manner of things, including harmonising mortgage terms across the eu, and seeks to grant the commission the power to decide to blacklist financial institutions. for these reasons ukip voted against it.
in writing. ‒ it should not be the business of the eu to instruct spain on how to treat its own people. this motion for a resolution calls for the commission to do all manner of things, including harmonising mortgage terms across the eu, and seeks to grant the commission the power to decide to blacklist financial institutions. for these reasons ukip voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given we need to put an end to infringements of eu consumer rights laws in spain relating to banks. the situation in spain has been shown to be critical, where since 2008, more than 700 000 people have lost completely or partially their savings and nearly 400 000 have been evicted from their homes. we call on the spanish government to act to put an end to this situation and we put forward initiatives to avoid this happening in the future.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party, i voted in favour of this resolution, which builds on 15 petitions regarding mortgage legislation in spain and 21 petitions on risky financial instruments in spain received by parliament’s petitions committee between 2011 and 2013. the petitions concerned poor consumer protection for mortgage borrowers and home owners in spain, and this report demands that the eu directive on unfair terms in consumer contracts be respected there.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it seeks to establish better europe-wide best practices of mortgage lending and information provided to consumers by preventing banks from misleading consumers about the products they buy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report. numerous petitions received by parliament’s committee on petitions have brought to light thousands of tragic personal cases in which citizens experienced the partial or entire loss of their life savings, and these petitions highlight the barriers that consumers face when seeking to obtain accurate and essential information on financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which builds on 15 petitions regarding mortgage legislation in spain and 21 petitions on risky financial instruments in spain received by the petitions committee between 2011 and 2013. the resolution seeks to highlight poor consumer protection for mortgage borrowers and home owners in spain. the report demands that council directive 93/13/eec (the unfair terms in consumer contracts directive) be respected in spain, following on from the european court of justice judgment in case c-415. it also seeks to establish better europe-wide best practices in relation to mortgage lending and information provided to consumers, with a view to preventing banks from misleading consumers about the products they buy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not believe the eu should involve itself in nation states’ internal rules. i am also against the plans to harmonise mortgage contracts.
in writing. ‒ we need to put an end to bank-related infringements of eu consumer-rights laws in spain. the situation is spain is quite grave: almost three-quarters of a million people have lost their savings – partially or completely – since 2008; and nearly two-fifths of a million have been evicted from their homes. the spanish government is called upon to end this situation and to avoid its recurrence.
in writing. ‒ this resolution seeks to highlight poor consumer protection for mortgage borrowers and home owners in spain. after the 2008 crisis that trashed the mortgage markets as over-extended banks called in poorly designed and audited loans, it is imperative that we remain vigilant to any further examples of bad practice in the mortgage sector. by establishing better europe-wide best practices on mortgage lending and information provided to consumers, and by preventing banks from misleading consumers about the products they buy, we can put banking across europe on a surer footing. furthermore, it is important that the european parliament is responsive to petitions and alive to the concerns and problems that the citizens of europe bring its attention. i was therefore happy to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution as it highlighted aptly concerns i share about the use of the death penalty internationally, and reaffirmed europe’s commitment to opposing, and encouraging others to oppose, the use of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am no supporter of the death penalty on a personal level, given my concerns over the ability of a nation state to enforce it in a fair and appropriate manner in practice, i cannot support a resolution which interferes with the right of other nations to make that decision for themselves.
in writing. ‒ any vote on the death penalty is a vote on a sensitive and personal issue that is a matter of conscience. any decision on the death penalty within a state’s penal system is entirely a matter for that individual nation state, through free and fair consultation with its electorate.
in writing. ‒ we believe that any vote on the death penalty is a vote on a sensitive and personal issue that is a matter of conscience. any decision on the death penalty within a state’s penal system is entirely a matter for that individual nation state, through free and fair consultation with its electorate. we acknowledge, however, that there are some states whose use of the death penalty breaches internationally agreed human rights standards, and we support work to curtail this through appropriate international institutions.
in writing. ‒ we believe that any vote on the death penalty is a vote on a sensitive and personal issue which is a matter of conscience. any decision on the place of the death penalty within a state’s penal system is entirely a matter for that individual state, through free and fair consultation with its electorate. we acknowledge, however, that there are some states whose use of the death penalty breaches internationally agreed human rights standards, and we support work to curtail this through appropriate international institutions.
in writing. – we believe that any vote on the death penalty is a vote on a sensitive and personal issue that is a matter of conscience. any decision on the death penalty within a state’s penal system is entirely a matter for that individual nation state, through free and fair consultation with its electorate. we acknowledge, however, that there are some states whose use of the death penalty breaches internationally agreed human rights standards, and we support work to curtail this through appropriate international institutions.
in writing. ‒ we believe that any vote on the death penalty is a vote on a sensitive and personal issue which is a matter of conscience. any decision on the place of the death penalty within a state’s penal system is entirely a matter for that individual state, through free and fair consultation with its electorate. i cannot support a resolution which interferes with the right of other nations to make that decision for themselves.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group, i voted in favour of this resolution reaffirming the eu’s leading role in the drive for the abolition of the death penalty and a moratorium on executions, and calling on the commission to respond to a number of questions by parliament about the measures being taken to mainstream in eu foreign policy and external relations the campaign to abolish the death penalty. while progress has been made in a number of countries, there is still a long way to go before the death penalty is abolished worldwide: executions were carried out last year in 22 of the 58 countries and territories in the world that still use the death penalty. the eu needs to do more to push third countries to abolish this despicable practice.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this resolution which ‘reiterates its condemnation of the use of the death penalty and strongly supports the introduction of a moratorium on the death penalty, as a step towards abolition; emphasises once again that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and that the eu’s ultimate aim is universal abolition’.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution as it calls for the european external action service (eeas) to involve itself in foreign political matters. i do not think the eu should involve itself in foreign affairs. i did however support the amendments that condemned the use of the death penalty for reasons of religion, sexuality or adultery.
in writing. ‒ with the 13th world day against the death penalty approaching, it is perhaps poignant that we have the chance to vote on this motion for resolution. i remain staunchly against the death penalty and i hope that this motion for resolution will once again reaffirm the eu’s commitment to opposing the punishment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution in which the eu reiterates its condemnation of the use of the death penalty and strongly supports a moratorium as a step towards abolition. at least 607 executions took place worldwide in 2014 and executions are occurring at an alarming rate in 2015. the death penalty is incompatible with fundamental values such as respect for human dignity and the rule of law, and so it is essential that the union expresses in no uncertain terms that the practice is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the eu has always worked to marginalise the death penalty and establish a moratorium on its use. however, it is worrying that the long-term decline in the number of executions worldwide has been reversed in the past few years, with 2013-2014 showing a 23% increase in the number of executions. given that several nations which practice the death penalty have been in receipt of european aid to fund anti-narcotics programmes, there is a real concern that executions could, in essence, have been funded by the eu. it is imperative that we increase the transparency of this aid package so that we can rest assured that european money is not underwriting the continuing use of the death penalty, as this would be an affront to our european values and a contravention of eu guidelines on the death penalty, as well as article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and protocols 6 and 13 of the european convention on human rights. by extending our oversight, the commission can allow european taxpayers to rest easy, knowing that their money is not being used to fund state-sanctioned killing. therefore, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ having sympathy with the victims of this terrible disaster, i abstained on the final vote. nevertheless, much of the content of the report calls for more european action. once again, a need for legislation in one member state is taken as a green light for action in all 28.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of this tragic disaster we would like once again to express our support and solidarity for hungary and its people. with regard to eu proposals of intervention to prevent similar situations in the future, we believe that implementing laws in order to prevent similar accidents should be a governmental competence of each member state. we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted on the resolution ‘lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years after the accident in hungary’. in the wake of this tragic disaster we would like once again to express our support and solidarity for hungary and its people. with regard to eu proposals of intervention to prevent similar situations in the future, we believe that implementing laws in order to prevent similar accidents should be a governmental competence of each member state. we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted on the resolution ‘lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years after the accident in hungary’. in the wake of this tragic disaster we would like once again to express our support and solidarity for hungary and its people. with regard to eu proposals of intervention to prevent similar situations in the future, we believe that implementing laws in order to prevent similar accidents should be a governmental competence of each member state. we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
in writing. – ukip voted on the resolution ‘lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years after the accident in hungary’. in the wake of this tragic disaster we would like once again to express our support and solidarity for hungary and its people. with regard to eu proposals of intervention to prevent similar situations in the future, we believe that implementing laws in order to prevent similar accidents should be a governmental competence of each member state. we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
in writing. ‒ this series of proposed regulations represents the latest encroachment upon the sovereignty of member states by this organisation (the eu). the hungarian people were the ones affected by this disaster and it should be for their elected representatives in their parliament to determine how best to avoid a similar disaster in the future, and not for the unelected commission to impose its will on an entire industry and an entire people – potentially at the cost of that entire industry and the jobs it sustains. that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution, the member states and the commission must step up efforts to improve and ensure the proper implementation of all eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry to avoid a repeat of such an environmental and human disaster.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which ‘notes that the red mud disaster can be linked to the poor implementation of eu laws, inspection deficiencies, gaps in relevant eu legislation and the performance of the site operator’ and, even more worryingly, ‘is concerned that almost no lessons seem to have been learned in the last five years, as poor implementation of the relevant eu laws and international conventions as well as inspection deficiencies continue and almost none of the gaps in the relevant eu legislation have since been closed.’
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this issue as this calls for further eu regulation. i believe that any regulation relating to hungary’s industrial sector should be controlled and voted on by the hungarian parliament.
in writing. ‒ the commission and member states must step up their efforts to improve, and ensure the correct implementation of, all legislation from the eu governing the extractive waste industry in order to avoid a repeat of such a human and environmental disaster.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, recognising the red mud disaster as hungary’s worst industrial disaster and commemorating the victims on the fifth anniversary of the event. i urge the commission to put more emphasis on research and development in the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste, and to produce guidelines for carrying out stress tests on existing mines with large tailings ponds, in the hope of preventing any further industrial disasters of this nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for increased efforts to tackle gender inequality through the renewal of the eu’s gender action plan (gap i). the resolution specifically calls for further action on two millennium development goals (mdg) – increasing gender equality and women’s empowerment, and reducing maternal mortality rates. the resolution welcomes the commission’s intention to initiate a transformative shift with gap ii and calls for it to take the form of a commission communication. i voted in favour of amendment 1, which calls for access to safe abortion for women and girls who are victims of rape in armed conflicts. i also voted in favour of amendment 2, which calls for further efforts globally to ensure access to safe abortion services, in the context of addressing the mdg on maternal health by reducing the incidence of high-risk births. sinn féin believes that the option of a termination should be available where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of a pregnant woman – including where she is suicidal – that would be averted only by an abortion; in the case of rape or incest; and in the case of fatal foetal abnormality.
in writing. ‒ i believe in equality; however, the proposed measures are the wrong way to go about it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip, of course, agrees in principle that gender equality should be promoted in developing nations. we also condemn violent acts against women and we condemn the use of sexual violence in conflict zones. however, we believe that this would be best done through co-operation between member states within the united nations rather than through eu legislation. we therefore abstained on this particular motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip, of course, agrees in principle that gender equality should be promoted in developing nations. we also condemn violent acts against women and we condemn the use of sexual violence in conflict zones. however, we believe that this would be best done through co-operation between member states within the united nations rather than through eu legislation. we therefore abstained on this particular motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip, of course, agrees in principle that gender equality should be promoted in developing nations. we also condemn violent acts against women and we condemn the use of sexual violence in conflict zones. however, we believe that this would be best done through co-operation between member states within the united nations rather than through eu legislation. we therefore decided to abstain on this particular motion for a resolution.
in writing. – ukip, of course, agrees in principle that gender equality should be promoted in developing nations. we also condemn violent acts against women and we condemn the use of sexual violence in conflict zones. however, we believe that this would be best done through co-operation between member states within the united nations rather than through eu legislation. we therefore decided to abstain on this particular motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip, of course, agrees in principle that gender equality should be promoted in developing nations. we also condemn violent acts against women and we condemn the use of sexual violence in conflict zones. however, we believe that this would be best done through co-operation between member states within the united nations rather than through eu legislation. we therefore decided to abstain on this particular motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this motion for a resolution stresses the importance of enhancing girls’ access to all levels of education and removing sex-based barriers to learning.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i do not want the eu to be involved in developing nations. i do not believe the eu has a place in foreign affairs. however, i agree that gender equality should be promoted in developing nations. i also agree that institutions such as the un should play a vital role in presenting targets to achieve these goals. i just do not wish for the eu to have an active role in this process.
in writing. ‒ the eu plan of action on gender equality and women’s empowerment in development is a crucial part of the union’s advocacy of gender equality. i hope i will see true equality between the genders in my lifetime.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this resolution stating that the european parliament believes the conclusions of the evaluation of the eu plan of action on gender equality (gap i) show a clear need for a step-change in eu action on gender equality and women’s empowerment. at present, 62 million girls in the world do not attend school. one in three women worldwide will be a victim of sexual or physical violence in her lifetime. it is essential that the union takes every possible action to promote gender equality, both intra-union and internationally. closing the gender gap on a global scale must be a priority.
in writing. ‒ the eu plan of action on gender equality and women’s empowerment in development has been part of a global effort to ensure that women are not marginalised, but rather are equal partners in development efforts. oecd countries have tripled the amount invested in programmes for women’s empowerment and have found this to be one of the most effective uses of aid. however, there has been a problem with aid in this area being focused overwhelmingly on social projects rather than on ensuring that women have access to the formal economy. the renewed plan places the empowerment of women at the heart of all eu development initiatives, and it is something that should be considered in all sections of policy, including foreign and migration policy. the issue of the empowerment of women is not merely indissociable from development – it is development. the plan also highlights the crucial issue of the global epidemic of violence against women and girls, and begins a strategy to tackle this, particularly with regard to women in, and fleeing, war zones where sexual assault has been used as a weapon of war. by backing this new strategic direction we make a stand for the empowerment of women globally.
mr president, i voted against this report, due to the glaringly obvious contradictions. in one paragraph you call for gender-neutral job classifications, but then in another you call for a binding gender quota. yet again this report contains a laughable amount of incompetence. let women and men compete for jobs equally, and do not force companies into a quota system. we all live in a fair and free society and the best way to keep it that way is to allow people to get jobs and positions based on their merit and nothing else. there is nothing positive about positive discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, calling on the commission to address the failure by many member states to tackle the gender pay gap, which stands at an average of 16.4% across the eu. in ireland, women continue to earn on average 14% less than their male counterparts, a situation which is unacceptable in the 21st century. this is a positive and strong report that stresses the need to introduce binding measures in order to tackle the roots of this discrimination. it calls for pressure on unequal pay practices and for the promotion of wage transparency, as requested by trade unions and gender equality bodies. it also calls for the introduction of mandatory pay audits for companies listed on the stock exchanges, and for sanctions against those companies that fail to implement equal pay, including their exclusion from the public procurement of goods and services from the eu budget. the report calls on member states to take steps to reverse the burden of proof, so the employer would have to prove that a difference in treatment had not been caused by discrimination. additional elements include introducing quotas for women at management level in companies, and taking measures to improve work-family balance.
in writing. ‒ i believe in equality; however, the proposed measures are the wrong way to go about it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called for the reversal of the burden of proof between employer and employee, which would fundamentally change the uk legal system and end the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’. it also included calls for eu sanctions, eu audit regimes for companies and eu-imposed gender quotas for companies. ukip believes that only the elected and accountable politicians in our own country should decide these things, not un-elected bureaucrats in brussels. ukip, of course, support gender equality and equal rights, and opposes any form of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called for the reversal of the burden of proof between employer and employee, which would fundamentally change the uk legal system and end the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’. it also included calls for eu sanctions, eu audit regimes for companies and eu-imposed gender quotas for companies. ukip believes that only the elected and accountable politicians in our own country should decide these things, not un-elected bureaucrats in brussels. ukip, of course, support gender equality and equal rights, and opposes any form of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called for the reversal of the burden of proof between employer and employee, which would fundamentally change the uk legal system and end the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’. it also included calls for eu sanctions, eu audit regimes for companies and eu-imposed gender quotas for companies. ukip believes that only the elected and accountable politicians in our own country should decide these things, not un-elected bureaucrats in brussels. ukip, of course, support gender equality and equal rights, and opposes any form of discrimination.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report because it called for the reversal of the burden of proof between employer and employee, which would fundamentally change the uk legal system and end the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’. it also included calls for eu sanctions, eu audit regimes for companies and eu-imposed gender quotas for companies. ukip believes that only the elected and accountable politicians in our own country should decide these things, not un-elected bureaucrats in brussels. ukip, of course, support gender equality and equal rights, and opposes any form of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the uk adequately prohibits gender discrimination. there is no need for further eu legislation in this matter. i fundamentally agree with equal pay for men and women but i believe that employment law should be made at member state level and not at eu level. in addition, the call for an eu harmonised job classification system is absurd and unnecessary.
in writing. – the uk has, in terms of legislation, the equality act and the sex discrimination act, both of which prohibit direct discrimination on grounds of sex and of gender reassignment. excessive eu interference in this area is unnecessary and it suggests that member states are unable adequately to protect people against discrimination. the uk conservative delegation fully supports the principle of equal pay between men and women and we do not accept any form of discrimination in or outside of the workplace. we believe, however, that the specifics of employment law are nationally sensitive and therefore should be determined in individual member states, and not at eu level. there are a number of elements of the záborská report which we are unable to support: for example, commission-imposed sanctions for companies who do not consider gender equality in their public procurement process; binding quotas for women in the political and economic sectors; eu harmonisation of employment terms; a further call for an eu maternity leave proposal; and a strengthened role for trade unions in establishing employment contracts. the uk delegation supported a significant number of paragraphs that reaffirm the principle of non-discrimination and equality, but we rejected this report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group, i voted in favour of this resolution as progress on closing gender gaps in employment and occupation has been slow. today, women still account for 32% of part-time work, the gender pay gap is 16% and the pensions gap is 39%. we need to do more to narrow this and bring about true equality for all eu citizens. in the uk, on average, women earn just 81p an hour for every pound a man earns. forty-five years after the equal pay act, this is completely unacceptable. we need to turn gender equality in law into gender equality in practice. based on the current rate of progress, the gender pay gap will not be closed until 2084. along with my labour colleagues, i have long supported rules to require companies to publish their gender pay gaps. however, transparency alone is not enough: this data must be used to make equal pay a reality across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. along with my labour colleagues, i have long supported rules to require companies to publish their gender pay gaps. however, transparency along is not enough; this data must be used to make equal pay a reality across europe.
in writing. ‒ equal treatment of men and women in employment and occupation is a matter of freedom and justice. it is a non-negotiable part of the social contract. all women regardless of their age, education or social status are potential victims of discrimination in the workplace, directly or indirectly.
in writing. ‒ in the uk, on average, women earn just 81p an hour for every pound a man earns. forty-five years after the equal pay act, this is completely unacceptable. we need to turn gender equality in law into gender equality in practice. based on the current rate of progress, the gender pay gap will not be closed until 2084. along with my labour colleagues, i have long supported rules to require companies to publish their gender pay gaps. however, transparency along is not enough: this data must be used to make equal pay a reality across europe.
in writing. ‒ this is a very important vote for the women, men and transgender persons in my constituency. i voted in favour of this report because i want to see equal pay for all genders. the amendments concerning transgender persons are particularly important to me, and i feel that the european union can and should definitely be doing more in this area.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this report. based on the current rate of progress, the gender pay gap will not be closed until 2084. along with my labour colleagues, i have long supported rules to require companies to publish their gender pay gaps. however, transparency alone is not enough: this data must be used to make equal pay a reality across europe.
in writing. ‒ it is indefensible that in our country, in this day and age, on average, women earn just 81p an hour for every pound a man earns. forty-five years after the equal pay act, this is completely unacceptable. we need to turn gender equality in law into gender equality in practice. based on the current rate of progress, the gender pay gap will not be closed until 2084. along with my labour colleagues, i have long supported rules to require companies to publish their gender pay gaps. however, transparency alone is not enough: this data must be used to make equal pay a reality across europe. that is why i voted in favour of the report and the amendments that back this requirement. it is time to stop hoping that things will change, and to take proactive steps to ensure that women achieve pay equality, not in some distant future but in the here and now.
in writing. ‒ in the uk, on average, women earn just 81p an hour for every pound a man earns. forty-five years after the equal pay act, this is completely unacceptable. we need to turn gender equality in law into gender equality in practice. based on the current rate of progress, the gender pay gap will not be closed until 2084. along with my labour colleagues, i have long supported rules to require companies to publish their gender pay gaps. however, transparency alone is not enough: this data must be used to make equal pay a reality across europe.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, these are serious times with serious challenges, for which we need serious solutions: solutions that move away from the old mantra that, whatever the problem, more money, more regulation, more europe is the solution; solutions that stop just talking about solidarity, but actually take account of the needs and the strengths of different eu countries; solutions that force us to be honest about the problems. so when the five presidents ask what caused the crisis we face in the euro: was it because we did not have enough centralisation of the euro area? was it because we did not have enough responsibility? was it because we did not have the right rules in place? no, it is because the rules in place were flagrantly ignored. for economic and monetary union to work, we all need to be honest that richer euro-area countries will most likely need to make fiscal transfers to poorer euro-area countries for the foreseeable future – and probably for ever. so, instead of highly complex rules for monetary union that powerful countries flout when politically expedient, how about a few rules that we actually follow? because yet again, political capital is being spent talking about ever closer union instead of delivering ever-growing economies and an ever more competitive europe. renegotiation and reform is not something that growing numbers of people in only one eu member state want. in my last five years here in parliament, my political group has grown to be the third-largest group – representing not people from one country, but from 16 different member states – because people realise that the eu cannot go on as it is. the eu has to change. the eu has to reform. so of course, ahead of the eu referendum, david cameron wants a better deal for the uk. but all of us here should want a better deal for the eu. to all my friends here in this house, if you really want the uk to remain a member of the eu, help the british government to achieve these reforms. dance, tango with us. but if you want the uk to leave so you can continue to construct a united states of europe, tell the uk to stop wasting its time and close your mind to reforms. on the refugee crisis, let us get away from polarising the debate: telling people that you are either pro-immigration or you are anti-immigration; saying ‘let them all in’ or ‘let no one in’; or ‘we should do something’ or ‘we should do nothing’. it actually achieves very little. therefore, in preparation for the summit, i hope leaders look to ensure that the basic foundations of a functioning and cooperative asylum system are in place: humane and fast processing; immediate returns for failed asylum-seekers; establishing hotspots – i am not quite sure what magazines mr pittella reads – or crisis points to quell the current crisis; and combining all of our expertise, willingness and resources available to achieve it – not opening a door and then closing it again; not causing confusion by acting unilaterally. what we need is to put the foundations of that cooperative system in place so we are better able to offer help to the most vulnerable people escaping this conflict, taking them directly from the camps and bypassing the traffickers. it may not sound as poetic as saying that the eu has a solution to every problem, but it is a responsible way of delivering a solution intended to help people who want to fulfil their dreams and a better future in their own homes. tackling this issue at source in syria and libya needs concerted action, not only at european level but at international level, to get the various militias and their proxies around a table to seek a political solution. otherwise the only alternative is a military solution in a powder keg, and the alternative is starting something that nobody knows how it will end. so these are tough and challenging times. but it is time to agree on what we can all do, not order others – or command others – what to do. time for people to lead with their heads and not their hearts. time to drop the fanciful wish list and to deliver serious solutions. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– commiserations to mr kamal on losing out on the conservative nomination for london’s mayor, but i would like to ask him: now that the ‘remain’ and ‘leave’ sides have launched their campaigns, which side is he on?
blue-card answer. – well, what a surprise that question is. as mr juncker said, we have to tango, we have to negotiate, and i will make up my mind when i see the deal that has been secured not only for reform of the eu-uk relationship but for the whole eu. yes, you have made up your mind; you made up your mind before you even came here. what we need is a serious debate that understands the uk point of view but understands that reform is not only wanted by people in britain, it is wanted by people right across the eu. you can talk about what you want, but we know what you want. we know that you want to leave. we want reform not just for britain, but for the whole eu. any more questions? i can take more.
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting the question. it is the seventh time of trying but i am eager to hear your answer. do you share with mr juncker the absolute horror when he turns on the television and sees people disagreeing with him? he is emotional, he feels upset and he has to turn it off because these awful people – these electors, these right—wing populists, whatever names he wants to call them – do not agree with what he is doing. do you share that pain? or do you think, perhaps, if you aspire to a position of leadership, maybe you should listen to the outside world and listen to what people have got to say?
blue-card question.– the lady mentioned completing economic and monetary union, and last week the president of france said the choice for the british people was full integration or leave. is it her view that if britain stays in the european union there will be adoption of the euro, there will be integration with schengen and there will be full union into the forthcoming european superstate?
blue-card question. – ms gáll-pelcz, you have done a tremendous amount of hand-wringing – which is very commendable; what is going on is very upsetting – but i have been suggesting in this parliament that instead of letting people be dragged halfway across the world to find refuge, why do we not build camps next to the syrian-turkish border? you asked for solutions, madam, and i cannot think of a more perfect solution. would you agree with me that that is the best idea? we build camps next to the syrian border and we make sure that we get funding not only from europe – apparently britain is the largest contributor to this. let us see some more action from the rest of europe and from the gulf states. do you agree with me?
blue-card question.– mr president, this is the second one i have asked, the same as other colleagues. mr rangel, you mentioned during your speech that you would like the uk to stay within the eu. that is a very commendable thing to say. the biggest single issue for the british people is control of the borders. do you think that you could use as a silver bullet in the negotiations – to stop people like me who would like us to leave – giving us back 100% control of our borders? if you could give that back to the uk, as a sovereign nation, i am sure it would be very hard for people like me who want us to leave. do you think that border control should be allowed to be discussed with the uk? thank you for accepting my second question of the session.
mr president, the uk referendum was initially due to be the key item on the council agenda. now it only merits one sentence in the draft declaration. i realise that is due to the pressing refugee crisis, but there is also frustration at the lack of detail from the uk government. to use mr juncker’s analogy, david cameron seems like a dad at the school disco reluctantly trying to dance but an embarrassment to everyone – and that embarrassment is shared by many brits. cameron has taken many months to provide any inkling of his demands. some of what he suggests is sensible and in line with what the labour party has been arguing for for many years, but he has been ambiguous in other areas, not least when it comes to workers’ rights. that is despite the fact that guaranteed holiday and controlled working hours are one of the key reasons why many british people support staying in the eu. so i want to ask the representatives of both the council and the commission: please, if david cameron threatens working rights, make clear to him the damage this would cause to support for the eu. we need eu reform, but reform that works for the british people, not just the interests of david cameron in managing his own political party.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, there is much in this report that will unite us, i believe. the green climate fund is absolutely core and we support that. we recognise that the intended nationally determined contributions (indcs) are falling short of the two-degree target and that more climate diplomacy is required to scale them up. we recognise that the emissions trading scheme must be part of a global endeavour, not solely an isolated continental movement. the report is both original and good. unfortunately, the original parts are not good and the good parts are not original. i have too many problems with the report, as it presently stands, to give my consent to this particular report. that pains me, because i believe we should speak with one voice in paris. i believe we are stronger when we can do so, but i cannot do that. right now we see again commitments put into this report that need not be there, that seek to divide us when we could be united, that indeed seek to put forward an agenda that need not be shared by all of us, and yet there is much that we do share. so i cannot endorse the report as it was drafted, but nor will i vote against it. i will ask that my group abstain on this. that saddens me, because i think that in reality we could have been stronger and i think we could have done more. this has been an unedifying experience and i would suggest we do not do it again in this manner.
madam president, good science is based on observation. one swallow may not a summer make, but the arrival of a bewick’s swan 25 days earlier than expected at the excellent slimbridge wildfowl trust in my constituency is always seen as a harbinger of a severe winter. the fact is that lots of people choose to believe theories which are, at best, not proven. after regular rising temperatures, which may also correlate with sunspots, the rise has stalled. it is not happening. antarctic ice is growing again. paris is based on crude modelling. the long-term evidence is of oscillations to patterns lasting thousands of years, and the pursuit of this chimera is costing jobs and investment – but only in the uk and the eu, as the climate change theories export them to china and other developing countries. the developing countries will laugh at us, refuse to sign our agreements and profit at our expense. i prefer to believe the bewick’s swans. they are leaving russia early because it is too cold.
madam president, the paris meeting will be vital in establishing the way forward for the world’s climate. yes, mr gerbrandy, even the ecr agrees with this. we want to be ambitious. we want to be united. but given that this motion calls on the president to forward it to the unfccc with the request that it be circulated in paris to all non-eu parties, this causes confusion. this is unfortunate. it is one thing to communicate to the commission whether parliament takes a different view, but i believe europe should approach paris with one voice. my group cannot support calls for binding targets on energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reductions beyond those already agreed. i do not think it is helpful to have a position that prescribes the earmarking of ets revenues, as this report requires, when this is not agreed. i believe we should go forward with one voice, and this report is not helpful in that regard.
madam president, well here we go again. paris. another un climate conference: as ever, high hopes disappointed, commitments below expectation, delivery below commitments. we should remember that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about climate theory. it is not clear that the rise in atmospheric co2 is anthropogenic or that atmospheric co2 has anything like the effects postulated by the ipcc. nor is it clear that the climate policies we are pursuing will have any material effect on levels of atmospheric co2, or indeed on the climate, but it is absolutely clear that we are utterly unable to predict future changes. all the predictions so far have been falsified by the data, and it is clear that our climate policies will do far more economic damage than anything that could be conceived as a result of climate change. it is time to question our hysterical obsession with the new religion of climate alarmism.
madam president, december’s climate talks in paris are an opportunity for us to make a positive impact on the future lives of millions of people in the eu and billions across the world. it is vital that we secure a comprehensive global and binding agreement, based on the ipcc’s two-degree target, providing a clear plan to tackle dangerous climate change. at the heart of that agreement, we need to ensure that social justice is there in the changes to come and that a just transition is guaranteed to a cleaner future. by creating decent jobs, inspiring people to innovate and transform their own workplaces and communities, whilst ensuring social security in times of change, we guarantee the public trust and support needed to tackle dangerous climate change. this opportunity must not be lost. i support the report and i ask people to support green amendment 12.
madam president, i have got a point of order, because we had a labour mep who was not being given the opportunity to be held to account for the legislation that her government implemented that cost the jobs in redcar in one of their constituencies. legislation created from this place... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, just two weeks ago in new york, world leaders signed up to 17 global goals for sustainable development to end poverty, combat inequality and tackle climate change. the goals are ambitious and set a strong foundation for a sustainable future. cop 21 in paris is the first big test of whether governments are serious and will turn those words into action. without a binding global agreement in paris and concrete financial commitments, the sustainable development goals have little chance of becoming a reality. the poorest are already paying the price of climate change in many developing countries and, as charles goerens has said, we must help them pay for adaptation. therefore, i welcome the words in our resolution on climate finance. as president hollande told us last week in strasbourg, paris is make-your-mind-up time. there is no second chance because we do not have a second planet.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pargneaux, for his work. i am glad that the commissioner has not been consulting the same oracle birds the swallows, the swans or whatever other mystical bird ukip has been consulting when it comes to climate change, and that he intends to follow an ambitious programme here, because that leadership role is absolutely crucial. i believe him when he says the eu must maintain a leadership role. but we do have a risk of undermining that role if we do not take into account the principles that were agreed just a few weeks ago in new york in discussing the sustainable development goals. that means that the principles of a just transition, which apply of course to those sectors that will be affected most by a transition to a low-carbon economy, apply also to developing countries, and we have to put that principle right at the heart of things. some good text was removed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and i regret that, but there is a chance now to vote to put that text back in. i support the report and i support those amendments which will do just that. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, this judgment is controversial and it has created a significant, burdensome and costly legal vacuum. ironically enough, whilst the aim of this decision was to uphold individual privacy rights, it has made these rights more vague and more uncertain than ever. we must not make it more difficult for businesses to operate or more difficult to protect the data of individuals. potentially we have opened the door to a patchwork of decision making across the eu. we repeatedly find ourselves in a situation where courts are determining policy before we legislate, and this has to stop. we now need to find fast, quality and effective solutions for commercial activity in data protection, which should not be overshadowed by any discussions relating to the activities of the intelligence community. this judgment certainly must not affect the need for a positive and forward-looking agenda regarding data and trade with the united states, and the eu and the us need to keep cool heads. the commission needs to come forward with a clear and immediate plan for interim transfers and to make sure that it delivers a better and stronger safe harbour agreement as soon as possible.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, irrespective of one’s position on this emotive subject, i hope that colleagues will share my relief that the ceasefire continues largely to hold, despite the tensions ahead of the 25 october 2015 local elections. i continue to question the practical viability of the two breakaway regions, bearing in mind the geography of the strategic points that remain in ukrainian hands, and i am mindful that military units remain in easily—mobilised positions well within artillery range. judging by the syrian-dominated headlines, one would be mistaken for thinking that all is now well in ukraine. this perfectly summarises the reactive manner in which the west is conducting itself in contrast to president putin’s dramatic shift in foreign policy. we are now playing catch-up – always seemingly two steps behind, where he has taken the initiative. regrettably, president putin is pulling our strings – from ukraine to the baltic and down into syria, not to mention in south ossetia and abkhazia and georgia. these numerous serious security challenges mean that we must now move beyond the arguments of who is right and who is wrong, accepting that – whether we like it or not – president putin is acting in what he perceives to be russia’s interests. if we are to see a genuine workable peace, and not just frozen conflicts across borders, we are going to have to compromise on a solution to this conflict. that is real diplomacy. the fight against islamic state is a perfect place to start that diplomacy.
madam president, as violations of the ceasefire decrease and the russian offensive has partly abated, it is true that the situation in the donbas area has improved, but the danger for ukraine is far from over. russia is seeking to assert its position in crimea and to add the so-called people’s republics of luhansk and donetsk to the list of breakaway territories classified internationally as frozen conflicts. not content with this, however, mr putin is also trying to add to the destabilisation of ukraine by seeking ways to undermine its economy with projects such as nord stream. in essence, unable to take ukraine by force, putin is reverting to the more traditional and subversive kgb tactics, in which he has been trained, of attempting to take ukraine politically. as russia now ensconces itself at the negotiating table in relation to syria, it will seek to use its position there as leverage over the situation in ukraine and the associated european union sanctions. we in europe must remain conscious of this, and not let the pressure of the migration crisis and the fight against terrorism in the middle east divert our attention and allow russia its way in ukraine.
author.– madam president, this oral question, which i am honoured to present on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, finds its origin in the public hearing which took place on 29 june 2015. the question is very simple and is in two parts: firstly to ask the commission to make specific policy commitments and enforcement plans to fight hate speech and discrimination; and, secondly, to ask the commission to adopt national strategies with clear goals to address anti-semitism, islamophobia and other forms of racism, similar to the national roma integration strategies that we already have in place in our community. behind these questions are some profound truths. we have a very complex situation: in dealing with anti-semitism and islamophobia, and indeed other forms of hate, we are dealing with some of the oldest forms of hatred on our continent. to deal with such issues and to think that they are simplistic – or indeed that in each member state they will be the same – is, of course, naive. but equally, to think that – as a european union, a union of values – we cannot take action against such a phenomenon would be naive and wrong. so these questions are really asking the commission to update its action to ensure that we are ready for the new forms of expression of hatred, of anti—semitism and islamophobia, which we see today. we are not being naive in thinking that there are always common denominators, but we do know that something has changed. no longer are these attacks anecdotal. our fundamental rights agency gives us the statistics. they tell us, for example, that 46% have experienced abuse, and 33% have experienced abuse if they are jewish, in the european union. we have one in three muslims, according to the fundamental rights agency in a 2009 survey, experiencing discrimination in a 12—month period. these are snapshot statistics but we know that no longer do we have anecdotal statistics. we know that our police forces and our enforcement agencies in member states are doing their job so that we can now have proper statistics. what do they tell us? they tell us a very simple truth: that, while we say we are taking action on the basis of the council framework decision of 2008, we are not doing it in every member state. the race equality directive of 1999, which was supposed to have been implemented across the european union, remains untransposed and unimplemented. we have the tools to deal with racism. we have the tools here in the european union but, sadly, not all member states have used those tools. in the end, each member state will have its own issues and its own forms of expression in terms of how to deal with discrimination. again, no-one is being so naive as to say that each situation is the same. but i repeat that there are two important points here. one is that we must deal with the political messages at european level – we must deal with education at european level and we must send out clear messages from this parliament – and also we must deal with the practicalities. yesterday, in my own member state, a young muslim woman was doused in alcohol on a train while people sat watching. for that victim it was a very painful situation, but let me say, too, that for the people who were watching it was also a very bad situation. that is why, in my country, there are exemplary sentences for those who commit a crime with racial motivation. the reasoning is that such crimes have an extra effect on society, and that is why you have such exemplary sentences. there is a bigger effect on society through anti—semitism and islamophobia, and it is a matter of opinion in this chamber – and many will have their opinions – as to what has happened in the recent refugee crisis and as to the responsibilities we all have to assume. these things will be matters of opinion, but what is important is that we realise we have to take action. we have the tools in the european union. we see ourselves as a union of values. we will not always interfere in what member states do in terms of taking action, but we must send the political messages, we must educate and, most of all, we must require member states to take action when they are ready. we have the tools at european union level to do that. we have not taken that action, and member states must now act and the commission must now act.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, this house has repeatedly called for the right to respect freedom of belief and the right to practice one’s faith, particularly when we are talking about other countries. the european convention on human rights states in article 9 that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. as has been mentioned, the european union has employment legislation relating to non—discrimination on grounds of freedom of belief – amongst other grounds – and general legislation concerning anti-discrimination on grounds of race or ethnic origin. given all this, it is clear that the european union and its member states still have considerable work to do in tackling prejudice. we are seeing a rise in hate speech in general, even against people with disabilities. we are seeing a rise in anti-semitism, as the us state department reported today, and we are also seeing a rise in anti-muslim prejudice, of which we hear far too much within this house. there is a gender dimension to the latter as well. a uk report published today says that muslim women are more likely to be attacked, online and in real life, than men, all of this hate speech and division and these acts of violence work against community cohesion, social peace and the quality of life. member states certainly need to take action to promote respect for diversity in their parliaments, in their societies and in their classrooms. so i welcome the commission’s statement and wish that member states would actually implement the legislation that already exists. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– can i ask whether you agree that it is right to debate islamophobia and anti-semitism here together because, ultimately, any form of discrimination is a cancer and we, as a society, need to tackle that? those who want to pitch muslims and jews against one another are actually doing a disservice when, in fact, both communities are suffering the same thing.
blue-card answer. – i do think we should be debating them together. i also think we should be debating them in the wider discussion about discrimination as well. i think that the overwhelming majority of muslims within our societies are also appalled by crimes of violence. nobody has asked the norwegian church to apologise for the actions of its member, anders breivik, and i think that the attitude that we sometimes manifest here masks the real deep hatred that is there. we have to combat that, whether it is the old anti-semitic hatred or the new one. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, this oral question conflates the issues of anti-semitism and islamophobia and infers that they have the same cause. now, the rise in anti-semitism is in direct relation to the rise in fundamentalist islam. look at the ideology that inspires it. let me quote, once again, the hadith and the sayings of mohammed: ‘judgment day will not come until the muslims fight the jews. jews will hide behind the rocks and the trees, and the rocks and the trees will cry out, “oh muslim, oh servant of allah, there is a jew hiding behind me, come and kill him.”’ here is an extract from a more recent sermon by sheikh abid al-rahman al-sudayyis, an imam at the al-haram mosque in mecca. he reportedly described jews as ‘the scum of the human race, the rats of the world, the violators of pacts and agreements, the murderers of prophets, and the offspring of pigs and apes’. instead of asking the commission what it is going to do to combat hate crime, the authors of this question should ask the islamic leaders in europe to publicly and unequivocally reject these hateful teachings. as for islamophobia, my dictionary describes a phobia as an irrational fear. many people have a perfectly rational fear of the followers of the cult of mohammed who subscribe to and hold the views i quoted. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i hold the old-fashioned view that we should have the same laws for everybody, so if somebody is abused or attacked in the street, they should be punished in the same way, whoever the victim is and whatever the reason that they are attacked or abused. we should all live under the same law and not differentiate that some crimes are worse than others in this respect, because if you are being abused or you are physically attacked, it does not matter to you what the reason is – it might be the colour of your skin, it might be religion, it might be the clothes that you are wearing – it is irrelevant. the law should treat everybody equally.
madam president, can i first of all say that i welcome this debate. i would like to thank claude moraes for all the work he does, day in day out, including at the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs hearing held in june, which he put a lot of effort into. i would also like to thank the vice-president for arranging the first colloquium on fundamental rights, which dealt with this particular issue. i attended that and saw how useful it was. it is quite clear that the impact that this discrimination is having on both muslims and the jewish community is the same. day in and day out, they experience discrimination in all sorts of different ways. the internet and social media do not help. what we need to do is to ensure that we have concrete follow—up to these hearings and debates. we need to make sure that the member states have actually adopted the eu equal treatment directives and also we need to harmonise... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, there are questions to answer over the largest ever property sale in the north of ireland. the national asset management agency (nama) was set up by the irish government to absorb toxic loans. it recently sold its portfolio in the north for a record eur 1.3 billion to us investment giant cerberus. there are allegations over millions paid for fixers’ fees, political access and sensitive commercial information. we need to know who got the money and what for. there is a paper trail showing that joint first minister martin mcguinness was not kept in the loop. sinn féin will expose the dirty, underhand practices and support investigations into alleged misuse of public funds. the two former stormont finance ministers, plus any other minister, politician or senior civil servant, including nama officials involved, should make themselves and all documentation available to the finance committee inquiry in the north and to the public accounts committee in dublin.
madam president, this week the official receiver managing the liquidation of the ssi plant at redcar in my constituency announced the full closure of the site after 175 years of steelmaking: 2 200 direct jobs have gone, with potentially 6 000 further job losses in the supply chain. this is a major blow for our regional economy and for the whole of the uk steel industry. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established for exactly this sort of situation. in 2011, dutch print workers were able to access those funds, providing workers negatively affected by globalisation with the funds needed to support them. however, the tory government in the uk is refusing to apply for this funding. the tories are sacrificing redcar steel workers on the altar of thatcherite dogma. if mr cameron wants to be remembered as a socially compassionate conservative, his deeds fly in the face of this practice. the uk government should make a sectoral application right now to support our steel industry.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that there are sufficient and appropriate safeguards to enable this information to be shared properly. in addition, i believe that international cooperation on such matters should take place via the appropriate agency (interpol) rather than be dealt with by the european union. for that reason i considered it appropriate to vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report represents the european parliament’s position on a draft council implementing decision which determines the date (1 september 2013) from which designated authorities and europol have access to the visa information system (vis). this technical report in itself is uncontroversial, as the implementing decision merely confirms legally the date from which the member states’ designated authorities and europol have access to the vis under certain conditions, that access having already been established in the vis regulation. therefore i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it only confirms legally the date from which the member states’ designated authorities and europol have access to the vis under certain conditions.
in writing. ‒ there are already ample agreements on access to personal information across the eu without adding to them. this is a further erosion of the privacy of private individuals.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of this approval of the committee draft proposal. in our globalised age organised crime has no respect for borders. they reach out in networks that span the whole of europe. terrorist groups also liaise and transfer ideas transnationally as never before. therefore, the nations of europe need to work together to solve these problems more closely than before and share data properly. however, considering this we must beware of mission creep and the possibility of the undermining of civil liberties, therefore it is important that the mandate laid out in this proposal is not stretched and is adhered to in both letter and spirit. furthermore, any changes must be brought before parliament. we guard against threats, without becoming our own jailers and losing the way of life we are fighting for.
in writing. ‒ i oppose draft amending budget no 6/2015: partly because it creates two new budget items to which i am opposed but also because it will result in a reduced uk rebate and therefore in more british taxpayers’ money being spent.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budget as it would review the uk rebate. the original revision had a higher estimation for the uk rebate, however this final budget has a much lower allocation. the cost of the collection of vat which we pay to the eu was not counted towards the calculation, nor was the bill the uk ‘secretly’ paid to the eu of gbp 1.7 billion. ukip opposes any further money being handed to the eu and we also oppose any moves for the eu to raise funding, which can only be done through taxation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budget as it would review the uk rebate. the original revision had a higher estimation for the uk rebate, however this final budget has a much lower allocation. the cost of the collection of vat which we pay to the eu was not counted towards the calculation, nor was the bill the uk ‘secretly’ paid to the eu of gbp 1.7 billion. ukip opposes any further money being handed to the eu and we also oppose any moves for the eu to raise funding, which can only be done through taxation.
in writing. – ukip voted against this budget as it would review the uk rebate. the original revision had a higher estimation for the uk rebate, however this final budget has a much lower allocation. the cost of the collection of vat which we pay to the eu was not counted towards the calculation, nor was the bill the uk ‘secretly’ paid to the eu of gbp 1.7 billion. ukip opposes any further money being handed to the eu and we also oppose any moves for the eu to raise funding, which can only be done through taxation.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report as it mostly concerns a technical adjustment to the revenue side of the eu budget. this adjustment is soundly based on the latest statistical developments and is in line with the agreed distribution between member states. there is no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget.
in writing. – i voted against this. the original revision had a higher estimation for the uk rebate, however this final budget has a much lower allocation. the cost of collection of vat which we pay to the eu was not counted towards the calculation, nor was the bill the uk ‘secretly’ paid to the eu of gbp 1.7 billion. the eu has plenty of money and we also oppose the need to raise more funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is only a technical adjustment to the eu budget without any impact on the expenditure.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budget as it would review the uk rebate. the original revision had a higher estimation for the uk rebate, however this final budget has a much lower allocation. the cost of the collection of vat which we pay to the eu was not counted towards the calculation, nor was the bill the uk ‘secretly’ paid to the eu of gbp 1.7 billion. ukip opposes any further money being handed to the eu and we also oppose any moves for the eu to raise funding, which can only be done through taxation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this budget as it would review the uk rebate. the original revision had a higher estimation for the uk rebate, however this final budget has a much lower allocation. the cost of the collection of vat which we pay to the eu was not counted towards the calculation, nor was the bill the uk ‘secretly’ paid to the eu of gbp 1.7 billion. ukip opposes any further money being handed to the eu and we also oppose any moves for the eu to raise funding, which can only be done through taxation.
in writing. ‒ this proposal seeks to create new budget items that will add further spending which i would not support.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the humanitarian crisis facing refugees and the urgent need for funding i voted in favour of this report. the report caters for an extra eur 401.3 million in eu funding to manage the refugee crisis; funding will go to provide immediate resources to respond to demands from the unhcr and the world food programme and other relevant organisations. this will provide immediate support to refugees. the funding will also go towards helping with the coastguard effort to rescue floundering vessels and reduce ocean fatalities. the passing of this report and increased funding is the right step in tackling the eu’s incapacity to deal with the current refugee crisis in a more humane, efficient and effective way. that includes enhancing solidarity and responsibility-sharing among member states.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe that the european union is addressing the migration issue in the right way, and therefore i cannot support a proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument – spending taxpayers’ money – for this purpose.
in writing. – ukip voted against the mobilisation of over eur 66 million to support an eu—wide migration/refugee policy. we oppose the eu taking more powers on migration and asylum and spending more money. each country should manage its own policy and work together on a bilateral basis to deal with the current crisis. eu policy on the current crisis has been a disaster and will only lead to more deaths on the journey to europe.
in writing. – i voted against the mobilisation of over 66 million euro to support an eu wide migration /refugee policy. the eu wants to have more powers on migration and asylum and wants to spend more money. each country should manage its own policy and work together on a bilateral basis to deal with the current crisis. eu policy on the current crisis has been a disaster and will only lead to more deaths on the journey to europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it aims to reinforce the eu’s resources to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis, allowing swift implementation on the ground.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the mobilisation of over eur 66 million to support an eu-wide migration/refugee policy. we oppose the eu taking more powers on migration and asylum and spending more money. each country should manage its own policy and work together on a bilateral basis to deal with the current crisis. eu policy on the current crisis has been a disaster and will only lead to more deaths on the journey to europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the mobilisation of over eur 66 million to support an eu-wide migration/refugee policy. we oppose the eu taking more powers on migration and asylum and spending more money. each country should manage its own policy and work together on a bilateral basis to deal with the current crisis. eu policy on the current crisis has been a disaster and will only lead to more deaths on the journey to europe.
in writing. ‒ the eu is adding to the tax burden on citizens of member states, and i would support a reduction in spending.
in writing. ‒ i supported this given the urgent need to adequately address the humanitarian refugee crisis in europe and at its borders. the report calls for the european union to do more to address the current refugee crisis, stating that the current measures proposed are insufficient. i welcome the call for the commission to present a sustainable long-term plan for the crisis and particularly welcome and support the focus on search and rescue operations. we need an immediate response as more people than ever are seeking protection in europe.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this draft amending budget, which seeks additional funds to assist the migration crisis but which fails to understand the nature of the current issue. where the solution is incorrect, i cannot support an increase in funding.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the mobilisation of over eur 66 million to support an eu—wide migration/refugee policy. we oppose the eu taking more powers on migration and asylum and spending more money. each country should manage its own policy and work together on a bilateral basis to deal with the current crisis. eu policy on the current crisis has been a disaster and will only lead to more deaths on the journey to europe.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the mobilisation of over eur 66 million to support an eu—wide migration/refugee policy. we oppose the eu taking more powers on migration and asylum and spending more money. each country should manage its own policy and work together on a bilateral basis to deal with the current crisis. eu policy on the current crisis has been a disaster and will only lead to more deaths on the journey to europe.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report as it calls for eur 100 million to be mobilised for the asylum and integration fund in commitment appropriations, 120 posts to be created for the eu’s frontex border agency, and increased money for the eu neighbourhood countries and increased eu spending on aid.
in writing. – i voted against this report. it calls for eur 100 million to be mobilised for the asylum and integration fund in commitment appropriations, 120 posts created for the eu’s frontex border agency, and increased money for eu neighbourhood countries and increased eu spending on aid.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it aims to reinforce the eu’s resources to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis allowing swift implementation on the ground.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report as it calls for eur 100 million to be mobilised for the asylum and integration fund in commitment appropriations, 120 posts created for the eu’s frontex border agency, increased money for the eu neighbourhood countries and increased eu spending on aid.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report as it calls for eur 100 million to be mobilised for the asylum and integration fund in commitment appropriations, 120 posts created for the eu’s frontex border agency, increased money for the eu neighbourhood countries and increased eu spending on aid.
in writing. ‒ this will add to the call for further increases in contributions from member states, and add to the tax burden on families and business.
in writing. ‒ this request for waiver is a hugely complex issue. parliamentary immunity is provided for under the rules of procedure and, naturally, requests for waiver should be treated with sympathy where appropriate: being an elected mep should not provide a ‘get out of jail free’ card. the request for waiver in this case appears to relate to the possibility of investigations. i feel, however, that i am unable to make a decision, not least because i am uncertain as to whether or not any of the investigation relates to matters of security and defence. i do not have sufficient information. whilst supporting the rule of law, i want to be certain that actions for which waiver of immunity is sought are truly criminal in their nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács so that the mep can deal with the judiciary in his country.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons stated in the proposal to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ this vote is by secret ballot: i do not believe in the principle of a secret ballot here. members of the public have the right to know how their democratically elected representatives voted. therefore i wish to clarify, for the record, that i voted against – on the grounds that i do not support the european fund for strategic investment, rather than any wish to make a value judgement in respect of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a deputy managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any posts created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a deputy managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any posts created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. – ukip voted against the appointment of a deputy managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any posts created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the candidacy of ms iliyana tsanova.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a deputy managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any posts created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a deputy managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any posts created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the addition of new eu posts, and therefore i do not support this position.
in writing. ‒ this vote is by secret ballot; i do not believe in the principle of a secret ballot here. members of the public have the right to know how their democratically-elected representatives voted. therefore wish to clarify for the record that i voted against – on the grounds in this case that i do not support the efsi, rather than making any value judgement in respect of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any post created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any post created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. – ukip voted against the appointment of a managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any post created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the candidacy of wilhelm molterer.
in writing. – i voted against the appointment of a managing director. this european fund for strategic investment seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any post created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the appointment of a managing director as we do not support the eu’s efsi programme or any post created for it. this ‘european fund for strategic investment’ seeks to raise eur 315 billion, but is based on taxpayers’ money being used as a guarantee and on wafer—thin assumptions on how much private businesses will put in. it is another grand eu project that will cost billions.
in writing. ‒ i do not support addition of new eu posts or, therefore, this position.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this, because the targets set will have a massive negative impact upon the economies of the nation states which are members of the european union. the eu accounts for just 12% of global co2 emissions; the uk for just 2%. unilateral action will not impact upon the global concentration of co2 in any meaningful way, but it will have a significant impact upon the economy.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’. the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%. the european union has chosen to destroy its economy while the rest of the world is behaving very differently. whatever we do, global emissions will rise. eu institutions are planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which will only further damage our economy. ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’. the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%. the european union has chosen to destroy its economy while the rest of the world is behaving very differently. whatever we do, global emissions will rise. eu institutions are planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which will only further damage our economy. ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
in writing. – ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’. the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%. the european union has chosen to destroy its economy while the rest of the world is behaving very differently. whatever we do, global emissions will rise. eu institutions are planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which will only further damage our economy. ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report as climate change is one of the most serious challenges of our time both for the environment and the economy. climate change is international in nature and calls for an urgent, global response. this must be based on solidarity among the international community. the paris conference must be a meeting at which real decisions are taken to make sure that the world gets back on track to keep the average global temperature below 2°c.
in writing. – i voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’. the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%. the european union has chosen to destroy its economy while the rest of the world is behaving very differently. whatever we do, global emissions will rise. eu institutions are planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which will only further damage our economy. ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the report. climate change is one of the most serious challenges of our time both for the environment and the economy. it calls for an urgent, responsible, global response, based on solidarity among the international community. the paris conference must be a meeting at which real decisions are taken to make sure that the world gets back on track to keep the average global temperature below 2°c. regrettably, the conservative meps’ attempts to water down energy efficiency targets show they are not serious on tackling global environmental issues.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’. the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%. the european union has chosen to destroy its economy while the rest of the world is behaving very differently. whatever we do, global emissions will rise. eu institutions are planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which will only further damage our economy. ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’. the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%. the european union has chosen to destroy its economy while the rest of the world is behaving very differently. whatever we do, global emissions will rise. eu institutions are planning to spend unimaginable sums of money on mitigation measures which will only further damage our economy. ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
in writing. ‒ this vote requires the uk to uphold eu dictated targets which are not being matched globally. the uk as a nation state should set its own emission measures and not be dictated to by the eu.
in writing. ‒ climate change represents an immediate and direct threat to the world that we live in. if action is not taken irreversible climate change will cease to be a theme of dystopian fiction but a part of our lives, potentially permanently. the unanimity of scientists on this issue is unprecedented, climate change is happening, and we are already on the brink. this motion lays down what the european parliament feels should be the course taken at the upcoming conference in paris. although nations are currently bound to ensuring there is no rise over 2°c there is no guarantee that this will not cause great damage, therefore parliament urges that a 1.5° limit be considered. furthermore, the aims should be ambitious, global and legally binding. i believe the future of humanity is too important to be used as a political football and have therefore backed this motion.
rapporteur.– madam president, the green group believes that we are in a tax crisis. we see governments – not just of remote tropical islands, but within our very own union – agreeing bargain deals with multinational corporations. our citizens pay the price for this: seeing the public sector starved of investment and our smes losing out because they simply cannot compete with the low rates of tax that multinationals can arrange for themselves. taxation and, more importantly, tax justice is of the utmost importance for european citizens. as we approach the anniversary of the luxleaks scandal, i wish to focus on a key issue of this debate: the question of who should know what about tax. so how much do we know? the answer is that we know a lot less than we need to in order to be able to develop policies that reassure our citizens that corporations are paying the taxes they should. as an elected representative and member of the taxe committee, there are still a great many vital documents that i do not have access to. last november, people across europe were horrified to find out that the commission president himself had been the architect of a secret system of sweetheart tax deals for some of the world’s most powerful corporations. yet, without the actions of the brave whistleblower, antoine deltour, they would have known nothing about this. so how can it be right that it is deltour who is facing legal action whereas the architects of the dodgy tax deals do not face redress? very few of the people i represent think that deltour is the guilty party on the issue of tax avoidance. the first real sign that the commission means business came last week with the announcement of the results of the inquiries into the tax affairs of starbucks and fiat and the demand for tax to be recovered. such inquiries still have a long way to go and, while i congratulate commissioner vestager on her activities so far, i would encourage her to widen and deepen her investigation. in march this year the commission presented a tax transparency package, which included the files that we are focussing on today. they proposed the repeal of the 2003 savings tax directive, which provided tax authorities with the information they needed to ensure tax was not avoided, but has now been superseded by a new directive that has wider scope. i was the rapporteur on this repeal and i undertook a thorough investigation of the risk that it might open up loopholes to facilitate further tax avoidance. i had excellent support from my shadows, and we agreed jointly that we would support the repeal. the directive on administrative cooperation is now being extended to call for automatic exchange of information on tax rulings. so important was this piece of the package that the council, in a break with tradition, proceeded without hearing parliament’s position. this is extremely disappointing, as we have made some significant improvements on the commission proposal, notably extending the scope of tax rulings considered. however, returning to my central point, we do not believe parliament has been ambitious enough on how information will be made available. as greens we call for the commission’s central directory of rulings to be made public not only to the commission and other member states, but for european citizens as well. this call for public information will be reintroduced as an amendment before plenary, as we believe it is what the people of europe wish to see. as i said at the start of my speech, the central issue of the luxleaks scandal was the lack of public information. senior politicians, tax accountants and corporate bosses knew exactly what was going on in the cosy world of what they call tax rulings, but as a parliamentarian i knew nothing, and those i represent knew nothing. it is for this reason that the greens in parliament will settle for nothing less than full publication of tax information. it is only when politicians know that their deals with corporations may become known to their electors that they will act in the interest of those electors, and it is only when corporate lawyers consider the reputational damage that might follow shady tax deals that they will stop spending so much time devising these elaborate webs of tax avoidance. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for that rather challenging question. i have not brought the data with me today and i realise that you do not have a chance to blue-card the commissioner, but the commission has actually prepared information. it is, though, obviously extremely difficult to estimate this because we do not have the information there. part of the point of calling for publication of tax rulings is that it will give us more information, enabling us to estimate how much tax has gone astray. i again congratulate commissioner vestager, as she has made an estimate of how much has not been paid by those two corporations, and i think we need further investigations of that type in order to have a real sense of the scale of this problem and the loss to the public exchequers of our member states.
blue-card question.– thank you and good evening to you. i listened with great interest to your speech, especially the first part. would you agree with me then that, if you have these feelings about mr juncker and therefore his commission, surely anything that comes forward from there is something we should all treat with extreme suspicion and caution and, really, there is nothing that can be said or done by that commission or this house on this subject that any of us should have any faith in? would you agree with that?
madam president, let us be clear, it is the existence of the eu itself which has facilitated multinational corporations in aggressively avoiding the potential tax liabilities that would be justified by their turnover in large european countries. under eu rules, corporations have been able to choose to pay their taxes in any eu jurisdiction rather than the one where economic activity has taken place. this has given smaller eu nations an incentive to strike sweetheart deals with very large multinational businesses and gives micro-states, such as luxembourg, the opportunity to enrich themselves while also offering a path for huge businesses to avoid paying a fair share of tax in countries where they record the bulk of their sales. so it would be perverse indeed to accept any proposed solution that involves more europe or more power to the european commission. the answer, rather, is for nations to take back full tax sovereignty over economic activity within their own borders.
rapporteur.– mr president, in winding up this debate i would like to note that it has demonstrated very well the amount of common ground there is across the house. there has been really good cooperation on all the files we have been considering and i found great support from my shadows on my file. there has also, i have noted, been quite a lot of movement amongst members of this house on the issue of tax, partly as a result of citizen outrage at multinational tax avoidance, but also as they have learned more – as they have gathered more information as a result of the taxe committee – and in my mind that is one of the main achievements of the taxe committee. to do our job properly we need information and we need evidence. how else can we make good policy? i welcome the statement from the commissioner that more documents have been made available, but i am afraid that having documents in a reading room where they are effectively behind lock and key is simply not good enough. it does not feel like transparency and we need to have better access to information than that. we also need to protect whistleblowers who are acting in the common good. we do not always see eye to eye across the different political groups in this parliament, but we have cooperated to protect public tax revenue and to ensure that there is a level playing field between the corporations who can arrange to reduce their tax contributions and the smes that are the backbone of our european economy. this issue of tax is of great concern to citizens, and i join with my colleague, mr ferber – who i know has now had to leave for the taxe committee – in calling for member states to work with us on this. we appreciate the support from the commission, but we also need member states to work with us on ensuring that ending tax avoidance is treated as an urgent priority, because it is an urgent priority for all our citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, enhancing consumer protection and consumer rights is something i will always advocate for as long as i remain a politician. i cannot, however, support these proposals. fundamentally, i take issue with the fact that this directive allows little or no scope for member states to make changes that diverge from its provisions. by imposing this ridiculous level of harmonisation, you are simply presuming that all changes to this directive will be suitable for all 28 member states. well, i can tell you something today, that is not the case. for my country, the united kingdom, these changes are not entirely suitable. if i may reference a uk government report directly, the proposal is far from perfect. why should the uk government be bound to abide by something it does not fully support? once again, this is just another example of the eu enforcing a one—size—fits—all policy with total disregard for the individual needs of member states. what i say is let us increase protection for consumers, but let us allow national government to regulate that protection.
mr president, we will also support this. the last time the package travel rules were updated was in 1990. that was before the internet started transforming every industry, and so we need to bring these rules into the digital age. this will allow click-through holidays to have the same protection as those bought through high street travel agents. twice as many people will be covered, and that is vital. if an operator goes bankrupt, or if a natural disaster or a terrorist attack disrupts a holiday, people will not be stranded just because they booked online. they will also be protected from last-minute hikes, allowing them to cancel if the price goes up by more than 8% after purchase. these safeguards are good not just for holiday-makers, but also for the travel industry; they will give people more certainty and confidence to book in the first place. this makes the legislation fit for the digital age and, in the context of the digital single market, that is vital. it allows consumers to have the protection they expect without constraining new business models. that is something we should bear in mind when looking at other sectors.
mr president, thanks are due to the rapporteur and the shadows. twenty-five years ago, when the original package travel directive came into being, few of us in this room had an e—mail address, never mind a mobile phone, so fast—forwarding to 2015 and making this directive fit for purpose for our digital world are vital to ensure that consumer rights are protected. i welcome the inclusion of click-through, a linked arrangement which some people call dynamic travel, the new insolvency and liability coverage, the improved consumer information, which will ensure that a consumer will know exactly who to go to and how should unforeseeable circumstances arise, and also the protection of three days’ coverage if something bad happens, as this will ensure that the traveller is much better protected. i know that this deal was hard fought for, and i welcome the review in 2018. now it is up to the member states to put this directive into law and i would like to see that happen sooner rather than later to ensure that consumers can benefit from these new rules as quickly as possible.
in writing.– i welcome the strengthening of this legislation designed to ensure the eu is not complicit in torture, and to fulfil the eu’s commitment to standing against the death penalty and torture throughout the world. updates to this legislation will ensure eu companies do not profit from torture in oppressive regimes, and send a strong signal that those who trade in execution and torture goods, including technical assistance and supplier services, that they cannot access the eu market. in particular i welcome new measures to improve the speed and efficiency of reacting to suspected transactions. i strongly stand behind the eu ban on trading drugs intended for the death penalty, which labour meps and the european union stand firmly against.
blue-card question.– i would just like to ask a simple question to see if you agree with me. do you agree that, if people in this house can make no dent in terms of having an initiative or things pushed through this parliament, how in the name of goodness are ordinary citizens able to do this? this is just a waste of time. would you agree with me, sir?
mr president, the words ‘citizens’ initiative’ sound brilliant, do they not? the idea, in principle, is of more democracy, more power going from us, the often untrusted politicians, back to the people. but the rapporteur is right: it has not yet worked. just 3 out of 51 initiatives so far have been declared even admissible. i would love for every member state to have a proper democratic right for citizens to get new legislation onto their statute books. i had to travel today through switzerland to get here, and actually outside the european union switzerland leads the way. it is not just that public petitions are considered, but the people get to have a proper say in a referendum too. what an incredible example of a proper direct democracy switzerland shows to us all. i believe that every country of the european union could learn from the example of switzerland.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank those ngos and local organisations who worked incredibly during this crisis for the bravery that they showed. i would also like to take this opportunity to criticise the media for the way that they sensationally took this as an opportunity to increase their ratings – and i know the bbc world news used it as an opportunity to have an ‘ebola watch’, which was something like looking at criminals. the way that they used the ebola crisis was just terrible. i am a firm believer that, with situations like this, we can tackle the problems by looking at the causes and not actually just the symptoms and, in the long term, crises like these can be averted by increasing the wealth of the poorest people in the poorest nations. the eu fisheries agreement in western africa has deprived the poorest people of their livelihoods, and this is having a huge effect on the poorest people’s ability to earn an income. remove these ridiculous fisheries and trade agreements that have been imposed on these countries; give the poorest people an opportunity to earn a living and improve the conditions in which they live, and you will see that crises like these will not keep on occurring.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for what he has said and mr goerens for the report, and i would, of course, particularly like to put on record my thanks to all the health workers and people who worked in those countries in very difficult conditions. the commissioner was right in saying that the biggest lesson we learned was that where countries did not have a basic health service, they could not cope and they quickly became overwhelmed by the disease. so my question really is: what is going to happen now to build those health systems? you said, commissioner, what should happen, but what is happening? has anything changed in the eu programming for the future? what is going to happen in our joint programmes with these west african countries? we built new clinics, what is happening to them? what is happening to the health workers who work there? what happened to the pledges made in brussels in april at the big conference? i am asking this because last week i met a healthcare worker from sierra leone and he said that some of the health facilities are being dismantled, that there are not enough doctors to staff them. but in sierra leone, one of the poorest countries on the planet, only lactating mothers, children under five and pregnant women get free healthcare. there is no free healthcare for the ebola sufferers who suffer from long—term after—effects of ebola. so we need to have a new programme for health and i am not clear whether the commission and its member states have got one and how they continue to coordinate because as you said, we all pledged in new york to have universal health coverage but it is not enough to keep pledging it, we have to actually do it. so, we can do something in these countries, and i really want to know what it is the commission is going to do.
mr president, médecins sans frontières, samaritan’s purse – they and other ngos did a great job. they were on the ground fighting this terrible disease before the politicians even started really talking about it. then when we did act we did everything in slow motion. we were playing catch-up and so every hospital, every new hospital that was built, was full within hours. rather than convert buildings quickly into makeshift hospitals, we did the job to a higher standard but it took many weeks, during which time the crisis got worse. so my message to the eu, to the member states, to countries around the world is this: next time please understand the urgent nature of emergencies, learn from the ngos, learn from the people who risked their lives to fight ebola and let us learn very simply that acting quickly is not only cheaper but also saves lives.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i want to speak on the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) discharge, as i was the shadow rapporteur for the agency. i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation on the discharge reports. we initially refused to grant discharge for the eit for a number of reasons. first of all, there was the 3% error rate detected in knowledge information community grants. secondly, errors were found in procurement processes, and there were also some issues regarding staff retention. since then we have had a progress report from the eit, which shows they have made progress, and also recently i took the time to visit the eit myself, and i heard and saw the progress which they have made. so, for example, as the commissioner said, error rates are down to 0.9%, they put in place new procurement procedures, and they have also put in place new staff appraisal procedures, which will hopefully help in a reduction of the turnover in staff. therefore, when we come to the vote, i will certainly be voting to grant discharge to the eit, and i also believe, when we get the court of auditors report for the 2014 discharge, that we will see the substantial progress maintained by the eit.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his courage in proposing that we should refuse to grant discharge for the eu’s budget 2013 in respect of the council. it is usually so rare to see this place actually criticise an eu institution. we really do have a breakdown in communication, because the council simply is not responding to questions: questions on spending and commitments, questions on building projects – like the residence palace; questions on administrative modernisation. i would also like to say that i praise the rapporteur for his unusual courage – but in this situation it is not actually quite so unusual, is it? because discharge was not granted in 2009, 2010, 2011 or 2012 and we are still talking about 2013, as we still do not have the answers to the questions. it has been postponed whilst we wait for the council to give us some answers, but it is not doing this. either you believe in the european union and its institutions or you do not. if you believe in it, then it is an embarrassment that this parliament is being ignored in this way; if you do not, then sadly this is business as usual for the european union.
mr president, i wish to highlight the detention of gregg fryett, a british citizen who has been held in cambodian custody since march 2013 in relation to allegations of a commercial fraud nature. mr fryett maintains his innocence and, i understand, at all times before his arrest had made himself available to the investigating authorities. indeed, when arrested, he had voluntarily returned to cambodia at the specific request of the judge, who had given him both written and verbal assurances as to his free passage. whilst the specific issues are, of course, a matter for the cambodian authorities, the fact that mr fryett has now spent 31 months in jail – well in excess of the statutory period for a person who can be held in cambodia before being brought to trial – raises major concerns for those who champion justice and also questions cambodia’s reputation by highlighting the systemic problems in the country’s justice system at a time when economic assistance is being afforded to it by both the united kingdom and the european union.
mr president, i rise once again to express my concern as to how we ensure that children born today can see lions, rhinos and elephants in the wild and not just in zoos. we are witnessing an unseen extinction crisis, yet we still allow trophy hunting. we have all heard the incomprehensible story of the demise of cecil the lion. it struck a chord of revulsion with millions, and yet new permits continued to be issued – for example to a german hunter recently, to kill one of africa’s largest elephants just for the sheer sport of it. during the decade up to 2013, nearly 27 000 hunting trophies originating from africa and america were imported into europe – and that is a conservative estimate. the eu is the world’s biggest aid donor, which gives us leverage in africa and elsewhere to stop the issuing of permits that allow trophy hunting to continue. i urge the commission and member states to take up a leadership role in cites and to involve this house in its decision—making to put pressure on states that issue permits for trophy hunting and also to restrict all trophy imports. i will be launching a written declaration on this matter, and i hope colleagues will support me.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, in recent years people have travelled across europe for their holidays, only to come home to a nasty shock when their phone bill arrives. ending mobile roaming fees will be welcomed by millions of people. safeguards have been put in place to prevent excessive usage and to make sure that telecom operators are not forced to offer services at a loss. this is to make sure domestic customers will not subsidise customers who travel. to put it another way, when you travel across europe, you can use your phone as though you were at home, but those who stay at home will not pick up an extra bill. the deal also covers the common issue of internet packages not living up to the user’s expectation. fixed-line customers will be entitled to clear information on the quality of services offered. they will be entitled to take action against their internet provider if the service does not match that which was advertised, for example if speeds are much slower than they expected. telecoms regulators from across europe’s 28 countries will agree a new set of guidelines on how broadband performance can be measured, compared and described. the new rules do guarantee net neutrality. users will be free to access content of their choice. it will not be blocked or slowed down. access to start-up services will not be throttled or held back by a bigger company. there will be no two-speed europe. importantly, parental controls, where permitted in a member state, will be able to continue. this is to make our internet safe, accessible and affordable across europe.
mr president, my party supports net neutrality but we do not agree that heavy-handed top-down european regulation is the best way to deliver it, and i note that more than one member state agrees with us. then we come to the question of roaming, which has been presented as a wonderful benefit for consumers. of course, it is no such thing; it is profoundly regressive. it will benefit well-heeled jet-setters and business executives and it will result in higher costs for domestic users. we have had members of this house, including vicky ford, who have told us that there will be no rebound effect on domestic costs. i have to say that if you take that view, you simply do not understand how markets work: the operators will have lost a major revenue stream, they will seek to recover it, and the only place to recover it is from domestic prices. we meps will get lower prices, but mrs lumsden in coronation street will pay more. yet again we see european regulation delivering unintended consequences and perverse incentives. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr helmer, many millions of people from across your region and my region use their phones. i do not want to push up their domestic prices, but i do want to them to be able to use their phones affordably when they travel across europe. this is why, in the two years of negotiations, we have put in place a safeguard through the review of wholesale caps so that domestic prices will not be put up. here is my question to you: why in two years have you never bothered to turn up to a negotiation? have you even read the text?
blue-card answer.– i have been fully briefed on the text, so thank you very much for that, vicky. i appreciate that. but you tell me that you do not want to push up domestic prices, so i have to ask you: why are you supporting a measure which will clearly have that effect? if you are relying on a couple of clauses buried in the small print to protect consumers at home, i suggest that you should think again, because those assurances are not worth the paper they are written on.
mr president, i will be voting in favour of this report later today because i believe it strikes the right balance between protecting consumer rights, encouraging competition and fostering innovation. the prospect of ending roaming charges in the eu is a significant bonus for consumers, and i am pleased that my constituents will be able to use their phones across europe without the fear of incurring huge bills. with regard to the open internet, this report takes a sensible approach. it will ensure that all internet traffic is treated equally, with some reasonable exceptions to overcome congestion. it will also allow for new and innovative technologies that have specific speed requirements, such as in the area of e-health. the report also allows countries like the united kingdom to maintain our system of parental filtering. this is an important issue for my constituents and i am pleased to see that this is been safeguarded. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do not know the reasons for different members of the council voting as they might have done, but what i would say to the honourable member is this: we are engaging in some degree of price fixing. now, i would say that i am instinctively against that, but i would say that in this area the free market has failed to deliver lower prices on roaming charges. so i think that where the commission is intervening in the market, it is reasonable and fair to give phone companies a period – and we are giving them just over 18 months – to get used to those price caps. i think the benefit for consumers will be significant and an 18-month delay really is not a problem.
mr president, parliament is voting today to bring an end to data text and mobile phone roaming surcharges throughout europe by june 2017. i urge all of my colleagues in parliament to vote for this so that we can see an end to outrageous phone bills for people when they return from their holiday or if they travel within the eu to work. this vote will mean that people no longer need to be afraid of facing huge bills just for keeping in touch with their family and their friends. roaming charges have been an unjustified burden on holiday-makers and business travellers for far too long, and the end of roaming charges will be of direct benefit to consumers all across europe and in the uk, not forgetting that this is yet another reason why the eu benefits us in britain and why the uk is stronger in the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the migration crisis may no longer be the top story on our news programmes, but it is clear from this debate that it has not gone away, and it is not going away any time soon. let us be clear. we have got to get away from the well-rehearsed arguments of whether you are pro-european or you are anti-european. let us get away from the arguments of those who want to do nothing, and those who think that we can do everything. instead of a stop-start approach, let us be clear about what we need to stop doing and let us be clear about what we need to start doing. stop sending out a signal that anyone is welcome. start focusing on helping those genuinely seeking refuge. stop driving refugees into the arms of the traffickers. start helping people nearer their homes. stop individual countries opening their borders to all one day, forcing others to close theirs, and start being clear about what each country can do and is doing to help, because we need to face the reality now. this is not just a migration crisis. this is not just a refugee crisis. it is in danger of becoming a geo-political crisis. in syria, a proxy conflict is unfolding. russia is doing all it can to destabilise the eu’s borders to focus our attention away from the ukraine. the balkans are in danger of destabilizing, so against this background we have had the commission 10-point plan, we have the european council roadmap and now we have the 17-point plan from sunday’s summit. but all these plans are no substitute for action, so to solve the crisis we first have to stabilise it, accepting only the most vulnerable genuine refugees from the camps, as identified by the unhcr, returning those who seek to bypass that system. but even with such a system in place, we have to take some refugees into our countries. we have a moral obligation, yet some countries are doing far more than others. some countries are struggling to cope. some countries are donating huge sums. some countries are paying huge bucks while others are passing the buck, so all countries need to understand the scale of the situation and help with coordinated action. when i say all countries, i do not just mean all eu countries. i mean all countries. so while we should acknowledge and support the contribution of turkey, jordan and lebanon, we should also be asking when the richer arab countries and the usa will step up. closer to home, eu frontline states and the balkans need to be helped. borders need to be strengthened. money and resources need to go into processing and returns. we need to be fair but firm, helping refugees close to their homes, welcoming some to our countries, but telling economic migrants to apply through existing legal migration channels and not being seen to jump the queue over those who have applied legally. let us uphold these principles to save lives, rather than encourage people to risk their lives. our grandparents confronted the problems of their generation, who had fought two world wars. they allowed our generation to enjoy a longer period of sustained peace and prosperity that any generation ever before. never take that for granted, for now our world is changing: shifting power from west to east, wars on our doorstep, terrorism at home, living longer but reproducing less. these new challenges will need new solutions, and history has taught us that to face the really big challenges we need to work together as allies but stand up to those who seek to dictate to us. our grandparents had the vision to meet the challenges of their times. our children will face a whole new set of challenges, so now it is our turn; our turn to do something for our children and grandchildren: face today’s challenges or retreat to the past. so let us stop sending false hope, to the millions thinking of coming here, that they all have a future in the eu. let us move on from road maps and action plans and get on with helping those in need. let us stop pointing fingers and setting quotas and start delivering, for the sake of the refugees, for the sake of the citizens of our countries and for the sake of the future stability of this continent. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– when will you and mr cameron finally get it into your heads that the only way to control the uk’s borders is by leaving the eu? do you have any other method of doing it than that?
blue-card answer. – well, mr coburn, it is great to see that you paid attention to what mr schulz was saying about the purpose of these questions. you will have your chance to have your say when the referendum comes. let us not forget that it was a conservative government that delivered that referendum, not you guys shouting from the sidelines.
blue-card question.– this is a definite question, seeking clarification from mr verhofstadt. mr verhofstadt, you claim that those of us with the blue cards are terrible people because we try to get this debate going and you list all the things we are against. we are against everything you stand for and you list it all: more immigration, more europe, more state. surely, sir, the truth is that we are not against everything, but those of us on this side who seek to get debate going are actually pro—debate, pro—democracy and pro—freedom, whilst being anti—eu and all of the things that you and your friends seek to push forward? surely, sir, that is the truth, and that is why blue cards and debate are so important and you do not like them. (applause from certain quarters)
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, as this migrant crisis begins to overwhelm the european union – and yes, it is an existential crisis – perhaps we should ask ourselves what really is the true nature of this project? i have heard a lot today about rights. well what about democratic rights? i think what we are seeing is an increasingly authoritarian european union that crushes democratic rights and then actually crows about it. every single time there is a crisis, it is national democracy that loses. back in 2011, we saw the italian prime minister berlusconi sounding eurosceptic, removed and replaced by a puppet prime minister. we saw exactly the same thing happen in greece in 2011. mr papandreou threatened a referendum on euro membership, there was a coup against him and he was replaced by a puppet. in this migrant crisis we have seen four countries – led, i guess, by the strongest, hungary – making it clear they want no part of eu migrant quotas, only to find themselves crushed through eu trickery and made to accept the very thing that they had said ‘no’ to. i never forget seeing the greek prime minister, mr tsipras, sitting just over there, having won a general election, and then come to this house to be told the manifesto was unacceptable and it must be ditched. all of this has reached a new low this week, with portugal. virtually unremarked upon by the media, and yet, for those that do not know, there is now, following the general election, a left-wing majority with a socialist plan for portugal – and yet the president of portugal, mr silva, is refusing them office on the grounds that they represent anti-european forces and is allowing the minority conservative, pro-eu prime minister to stay in place. this is the modern day implementation of the brezhnev doctrine. this is exactly what happened to states living inside the ussr. what has been made clear here, with greece and indeed with portugal, is that a country only has democratic rights if it is in favour of the project. if not, those rights are taken away. perhaps none of this should surprise us, as mr juncker has told us before that there can be no democratic choice against the european treaties. the german finance minister, mr schäuble, has said elections change nothing: there are rules. i think for anyone that believes in democracy, portugal should be the final straw. it should be the warning that this project – to protect itself and all its failings – will destroy the individual rights of people and of nations. my country has always believed in parliamentary democracy so strongly that twice in the last century it risked everything to fight for parliamentary democracy, not just for britain but for the rest of europe too. i actually believe that for all of us who believe in democracy and want to see it re-implemented, the british referendum offers a golden opportunity. (applause from certain quarters)
blue-card answer. – well, actually, although i have to say that i was not around at the time of the hungarian uprising, it did happen and we saw a similar one happening in czechoslovakia in 1968. let me tell you what the brezhnev doctrine says (because i am sure you remember it): when forces that are hostile to socialism try to turn the development of a socialist country towards capitalism, it becomes not only a problem for the country concerned, but a common problem and a concern for all socialist countries. i think what you need to do is cross out ‘socialist’ and put ‘european union’ and it fits like a glove. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, in listening to this morning’s debate i hope that what we have heard is a more realistic approach to the issues facing european nations in dealing with the flows of refugees and migrants currently heading towards europe. i understand that many of those coming are fleeing persecution, but i fear that the initial response by some european nations may have consigned even more vulnerable people to trafficking and exploitation by criminal gangs. president tusk focused this morning on the matter of securing borders, concluding that even though deals with third countries are possible, no third country can replace us in protecting our external borders. president juncker indicated that we need to slow down the uncontrolled flow of people. if this is a more realistic approach, it is late but welcome. of course, it is only part of the answer. it requires a dual approach: stability in the region and promoting policies to encourage economic growth. however, i am perturbed by the tone of some of the leaders’ comments in this debate this morning. let me address mr weber’s intemperate outburst on behalf of my constituents in the united kingdom. we are not a nation of extremes but a compassionate people who have mandated our government to give aid to the syrian refugee crisis. in fact, we are the second largest bilateral donor of aid to the refugee crisis in syria and one of the few countries working to fulfil our millennium development goals. finally, it is disgraceful that while we have heard much from the presidents of the council and the commission this morning about the role of european nations and the need for ever more funding from those european nations, they have ignored the potential contribution of the gulf states in resolving this very difficult situation. it is time we ensured that these states stepped up to the mark and took on their moral responsibility to deal with this crisis along with the rest of us.
mr president, the left and mr pittella today reached a new low in this house by calling us a virus. then we have mr schulz, who seems to think it is wrong to protect national interests. i was actually sent here to protect our national interest, and actually the people of britain will vote to leave this place, because they recognise that our national interests are not being served in this place. mr juncker: when in doubt, have a summit. of course, we must have a summit, and the man from luxembourg comes along, too. now it is great that the man from luxembourg comes along to talk about migration – but nobody, not one single migrant, is banging on the door to get into luxembourg. i go to calais quite a lot, and now the number of migrants in calais trying to get into the uk has doubled to 6 000. i said it before: the majority of these people are not refugees. they are economic migrants. interjection regarding an apparent lack of french interpretation. well it does not matter. i will carry on, because my audience is britain. as i said before, these people are not refugees; they are economic migrants. the main concern of the migrants is not safety, but economic gain. in calais, the majority of people storming the tunnel are aggressive young men. i was on eurostar yesterday, and when i entered france there were a number of migrants sitting on the tracks on this side. the police did not detain them, they did not deport them, and that is wrong. that is why this place is going to crumble.
mr president, we should indeed understand the gravity of the situation. it is important that, whatever our political views, we do not give up on the european union for a well-organised and compassionate response. it is the reason why commissioner avramopoulos and the committee on budgets will meet with us in a few minutes after the votes: we have to do something. we have to take action. it is right that the commission convened the west balkan summit. it did so with a lot of criticism, but the chaos has to be resolved. people are suffering as winter comes. we will see more deaths and this parliament will call for action. so action has to be taken, and that means that this parliament must do its work. after all the talk is finished, we will have to do the work, we will have to get the financial instruments and we will have to ensure that the hotspots work. commissioner, my interest is to ensure that those hotspots and reception centres work. they would have worked if the asylum conditions had been created over the past years and member states had done it then. so we have to do it now. we have to get on with it and we have to make it work in the next few weeks.
mr president, on behalf of british labour meps, i welcome any cooperation with turkey and other countries that can help better manage the current crisis. you have heard the cynical voices from some in this house, but they will never seek solutions. instead, they will only seek to use this tragic situation for political gain. national leaders who have reached this deal must take on their responsibilities to deliver their own agreement. this crisis is a continuing nightmare for all those families forced to walk mile upon mile to reach shelter and food for their children. these are people just like us: they are human beings. it is not a political game. talking of which, i note that at the council meeting there was a short discussion on the terms of the uk’s negotiations and referendum, so i will use this opportunity to warn prime minister cameron: there can be no more delay. this is too important. he now needs to join us in securing a future that britain deserves: a future inside the european union.
in writing.– turkey, as a nato ally, as a g20 economy and as the most successful muslim democracy in the world is a partner europe needs. today more than ever, the eu cannot deal with the refugee crisis without turkish help. it is ironic that once again europe is allowing important foreign policy decisions to be driven by events than long term strategy. to those of my colleagues who say we promised too much in the eu – turkey joint action plan - i say the question is not whether we work with our ally turkey but how we can strengthen our existing cooperation. the eu will need turkey beyond the current refugee crisis. as a democratic muslim country, turkey is a role model for the whole muslim world. as a nato member, essential for our security. and as the fastest growing economy in europe, crucial for our economic well—being.
madam president, is it in order to congratulate mr donald tusk in his skilful decision to resign as prime minister of poland last year in order to take up the job of president of the council, at 5 times the salary [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ although ukip does not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report which repeals two acts that have ceased to serve any legislative function. the directives in question are related to the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in fats and oils and another establishing a temporary scheme for restructuring the sugar industry. the former is now included in a regulation in the same format, and the latter is no longer applicable as it only concerned temporary measures.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion because there appears to be more to the matter than the simple repealing of an obsolete act.
in writing. ‒ although we do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ although we do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ although we do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. – although we do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. – although we do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to repeal two obsolete acts that had exhausted all their effects.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote, as it was highly technical, and as always with the eu, repealing does not necessarily mean less regulation!
in writing. ‒ alongside my colleagues in the s&d group, i voted in favour of this report. the agreement on better law—making between the council and this parliament states that eu law should be updated and de-cluttered by repealing acts which are no longer applied. this regulation repeals two obsolete acts that are no longer in effect, but technically remain in force. it is a pure formality and aims at ensuring transparency and legal certainty, making sure that eu law is easier understood.
in writing. – although i do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, my colleagues and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, as i agree that european union law should be updated and condensed by removing acts which are no longer applied, in order to improve transparency and certainty.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this tidying-up proposal. the commission proposal aims at repealing council directive no 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, which have exhausted all their practical effects and remain only technically in force.
in writing. ‒ although we do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ although we do not approve of this parliament legislating for 500 million people, as this repeals defunct legislation, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, as although i do wish to see obsolete acts repealed i do not think this report will achieve what it hopes to do.
in writing. ‒ repealing this act shows the eu’s ability to become more efficient and do away with unnecessary legislation. while they have effectively exhausted all of their effects, they do remain technically in force and because of subsequent acts, they have been rendered obsolete.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the proposed regulation is nothing more than a formality and has the aim of ensuring transparency and legal certainty, which are prerequisites of responsible law—making.
madam president, our policy toward switzerland is driven by an unspoken or – indeed, in this chamber – sometimes a voiced resentment about their stubborn independence. not just the fact of being outside the european union, but the fact that they dare to prosper – to be, according to the united nations, the happiest and wealthiest country in europe, with a remarkably low tax take. how they do it? how do they supply their peoples with the highest standard of living in the world while taking less than 30% of gdp in combined cantonal and federal spending, when we spend so much and get so little? do you know what i would say: that is not they who have the problem. perhaps, instead of trying to push the people of that sturdy mountain republic into joining the european union, we should instead petition to become cantons of the helvetic confederation. we would have to be a lot more democratic, we would have to be a lot more open to referendums, we would have to cut our taxes and be a bit more competitive, and you know what: i can think of worse fates than that.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ while the intentions of this report were positive, it is another unfortunate case of style over substance. this is reflective of the democratic deficit which permeates the eu and means that much of the actions taken are often elaborate pr stunts. in this situation, the council had decided on this report beforehand and only consulted parliament after the ratification of the agreement. by way of background information, this agreement was signed on 27 may 2015 and it relates to the automatic exchange of financial account information and is aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the rapporteur did present a number of very good suggestions and tabled some important critiques but the council refused to take them on board. it was for these reasons that i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ this sought parliament’s approval of an eu-switzerland agreement on the exchange of tax information. such matters should be the subject of a bilateral agreement between nations, not dealt with at a european union level.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. – ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the kofod report on the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information and welcome the fact that the existing savings agreement is made compatible with current eu and oecd global standards. i am in support of standards which will include, for example, a more detailed set of provisions on data protection, provisions on exchange or information upon request according to the oecd model, and a mechanism to adopt amendments to the global standard swiftly on the condition of consent by the other contracting party.
in writing. – ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ this act seeks the approval of the eu parliament for an agreement to exchange tax details between the eu and switzerland. any arrangement that needs to be made regarding taxation should be made bilaterally, and not via the eu. once again, more sovereignty salami sliced away.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of approving the agreement between the eu and switzerland because it is vital, in the global fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, that we work with non-eu countries like switzerland in order to make sure that no one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my fellow labour meps, voted in favour of approving the agreement between the eu and switzerland because it is vital, in the global fight against tax evasion, that we work with non-eu countries and key-players like switzerland in order to make sure that no one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas. this agreement represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. – ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason i voted against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as it is vital, in the global fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, that we work with non-eu countries like switzerland in order to make sure that no one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal but regret that no improvements could be made, particularly regarding information provided and the automatic, binding and unrestricted nature of exchanges of information.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency but not of the commission being involved in negotiating tax treaties – something which could just as easily be done on a bilateral basis by member states in their own capacity. for this reason ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because such arrangements that need to be made in respect of taxation should be made bilaterally and not via the eu.
in writing. ‒ the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion is a global fight and my vote in favour of approving this agreement is because i believe that such an arrangement is vital in this battle. we must work with non-eu countries, like switzerland, in order to make sure that no-one can dodge taxes simply by hiding their money overseas.
madam president, there is a difference between a tax haven and a territorial state that simply happens to have low taxes. you can cut your taxes without doing anything improper or illicit. i think for example of the bailiwick of guernsey, which as recently as the 1980s had an economy based on tomatoes and tourism but which is now a territory with far higher income per head than anywhere in the eu, because it has managed its affairs properly. now when i look at their lack of vat, their maximum cap on income tax, their lack of inheritance tax and i see that they are providing the same level of public services as anyone else, i do not think it is they who have the problem. perhaps their advantage is that they were not in the european union and that they were therefore able to tailor their policies to suit their own conditions and needs. the rest of us could learn from countries which have proximity to the citizen, small scale of government and efficiency in fiscal matters instead of trying to bully them. instead of seeing them as a threat, we should see what they can offer us.
madam president, when is a repeal not a repeal? when it is a facade. it sounds like a little bit of a joke, does it not? i mean you might expect that i, as somebody who is opposed to british membership of the european union, would be very much in favour of repeal and, of course, in general i am. but what we have got here is a repeal of a directive which has already been duplicated. so it is not as if we are going to actually lose anything impractical from the statute book whatsoever, but at the same time when you read through the scott cato report, it is quite clear that the amendments which have been inserted into this report under rule 50 of the committee procedure include things like calling on the commission to negotiate tax arrangements, and so on. so what we have got, on the one hand, is something which headlines as a repeal but on the other it masquerades as a way of getting more europe in there, so therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report was concerned with the eu savings tax directive which was adopted as a measure to ensure that tax is paid on the interest of savings, and the provisions became applicable in 2005. the directive applied among eu countries and in separate agreements between eu countries and 12 overseas territories. in parallel, the commission, on behalf of the european union, negotiated similar bilateral agreements with five non-eu european countries. as part of its march 2015 tax transparency package, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive so that member states do not have to apply the provisions in both directives, avoiding the inconvenience of double systems of collecting and reporting of data. it was decided that this should be fast-tracked under what is referred to as the fast-track procedure according to rule 50 of the rules of procedure i.e. no vote in committee unless more than 10 percent of members object.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. – ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i am favour of the scott cato report’s proposal to repeal the savings directive to ensure that only one applicable standard prevails on automatic exchange of financial account information within the eu. my party has also secured wording that the commission will have no negotiating mandate with associated territories without the explicit consent of the relevant member state. in short, i support this tax simplification in line with global standards.
in writing. – ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the repeal of the savings directive. the commission is right to align the eu’s standards with the oecd’s so as not to disadvantage member states. this type of scrutiny of reports and acts is most welcome and can ensure that the eu is competitive in the wider world.
in writing. ‒ when is a repeal not a repeal? when the eu is involved. i voted against, as it was supposedly to repeal a directive which has since been duplicated by another one specifically designed to implement oecd common reporting standards. the rapporteur managed to put in a few calls for the commission to negotiate tax agreements and make reports to the parliament. more sovereignty down the eu drain.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of repealing the savings tax directive because it has now been superseded by the directive on administrative cooperation, and it makes no sense to burden businesses with having to report the same information twice. the new directive on administrative cooperation should have a major impact in the fight against aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion, and labour meps will make sure that it is being implemented properly when it comes into force next year.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of repealing the savings tax directive because it has now been superseded by the directive on administrative cooperation and it makes no sense to burden businesses with having to report the same information twice. the new directive on administrative cooperation should have a major impact in the fight against aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion. labour meps will make sure that it is being implemented properly when it comes into force next year and if any loopholes occur we will call on the commission to take any and all action necessary to make sure they are closed.
in writing. – i voted against this report and its proposals. ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the repeal. however, we call on the commission to report on the results of the repeal, with reference to any potential loopholes that may arise.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report but wish to emphasise that the fight against tax avoidance, and the need for fair taxation, must remain high on the political agenda.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of repealing eu legislation but the rapporteur on this report has arbitrarily included amendments that not only call on the commission to produce reports and further legislation, but also encourage it to negotiate tax treaties on behalf of member states. repeal of the directive, as proposed, would reduce disclosure requirements and would thereby undermine tax transparency. for these reasons ukip is against the proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, as although i do wish to see obsolete acts repealed, i do not think this report will achieve what it hopes to do. it had various amendments in the report added by the rapporteur under committee rule 50 that calls on the commission to do various things and i do not support the commission bringing in new legislation.
in writing. ‒ today, i voted in favour of repealing the savings tax directive because the directive on administrative cooperation renders it redundant, and it doesn’t make sense to have businesses report on the same information twice. the new directive on administrative cooperation should have a great impact in the fight against tax avoidance/evasion, and i want to makes sure that it is being implemented properly when it comes into force next year, and this vote will assist in that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing the savings tax directive because it has now been superseded by the directive on administrative cooperation, and it serves no purpose to burden businesses with having to report the same information twice. the new directive on administrative cooperation should have a major impact in the fight against aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion, and labour meps will make sure that it is being implemented properly when it comes into force next year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing the savings tax directive because it has now been superseded by the directive on administrative cooperation, and it makes no sense to burden businesses with having to report the same information twice. the new directive on administrative cooperation should have a major impact in the fight against aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion, and labour meps will make sure that it is being implemented properly when it comes into force next year. fighting and legislating for tax justice is part of our work of building a more social europe in a fairer global economy. this type of legislation can only be effectively adopted and implemented at a european level.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of such information should be a matter for the member states concerned, not the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. – ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. – ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ this involves exchanging fingerprint data. i voted against for obvious reasons.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report to increase cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the exchange of dactyloscopic or fingerprint data is important for the purposes of criminal identification, registration, and investigation. following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside other s&d meps, voted in favour of this report. this report is purely technical and is a simple approval of an evaluation report in which it is concluded that sweden has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of the prüm decision.
in writing. – i and my fellow ukip meps reject the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it aims to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. also, following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal on automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which relates to an old council decision to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the exchange of dactyloscopic data refers to the study of fingerprints for the purposes of criminal identification, registration and investigation.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ as a former minister of justice, i consider cooperation in this area to be very beneficial. i therefore did not hesitate to support the resolution, both in this case on cooperation with sweden and in other resolutions concerning poland and belgium.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because i do not wish to see uk citizens’ fingerprint data shared with foreign nations.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical consultation procedure and concerns the implementation of the so-called ‘prüm decision on exchanging fingerprint data’ by sweden. it’s well formed and i voted in favour of it, alongside my s&d colleagues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding cross-border exchange of dactyloscopic data (the study of fingerprints for the purposes of criminal identification, registration and investigation) in an attempt to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ as the united kingdom did not participate in the original council decision with regard to automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, and is therefore not taking part in the adoption of this decision, i abstained on this report. while i support the objectives of the decision, which are to have more member states cooperating in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, the provisions on the exchange of dna and fingerprint material relate closely to many of the elements of prüm treaty which the uk has not yet implemented. under the prüm treaty, a member state can ask another state to check key personal data (and car registrations) against their database as part of a criminal investigation. i have significant concerns regarding certain civil liberties and data protection elements, and the cost implications related to its implementation.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of such information should be a matter for the member states concerned, not the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. – ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. – ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ this involves exchanging fingerprint data. i voted against for obvious reasons.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report to increase cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the exchange of dactyloscopic or fingerprint data is important for the purposes of criminal identification, registration, and investigation. following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside other s&d meps, voted in favour of this report. this report is purely technical and is a simple approval of an evaluation report in which it is concluded that belgium has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of the prüm decision.
in writing. – i and my fellow ukip meps reject the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it aims to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. also, following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which relates to an old council decision to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the exchange of dactyloscopic data refers to the study of fingerprints for the purposes of criminal identification, registration and investigation.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because i do not wish to see uk citizens’ fingerprint data shared with foreign nations.
in writing. ‒ belgium has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of the prüm decision, and so i voted in favour of this principally technical consultation procedure on the exchange of fingerprint data by belgium.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, regarding cross-border exchange of dactyloscopic data (the study of fingerprints for the purposes of criminal identification, registration and investigation) in an attempt to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ as the united kingdom did not participate in the original council decision with regard to automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, and is therefore not taking part in the adoption of this decision, i abstained on this report. while i support the objectives of the decision, which are to have more member states cooperating in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, the provisions on the exchange of dna and fingerprint material relate closely to many of the elements of the prüm treaty which the uk has not yet implemented. under the prüm treaty, a member state can ask another state to check key personal data (and car registrations) against their database as part of a criminal investigation. i have significant concerns regarding certain civil liberties and data protection elements, and the cost implications related to its implementation.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of such information should be a matter for the member states concerned, not the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. – ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. – ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ this involves exchanging fingerprint data. i voted against for obvious reasons.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report to increase cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the exchange of dactyloscopic or fingerprint data is important for the purposes of criminal identification, registration, and investigation. following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside other s&d meps, voted in favour of this report. this report is purely technical and is a simple approval of an evaluation report in which it is concluded that poland has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of the prüm decision.
in writing. – i and my fellow ukip meps reject the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it aims to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. also, following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal on automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which relates to an old council decision to increase cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the exchange of dactyloscopic data refers to the study of fingerprints for the purposes of criminal identification, registration and investigation.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ ukip rejects the notion that greater eu integration will help detect and prevent crimes. we note that a number of serious criminals from eu member states have entered britain and committed serious crimes, with the uk powerless to stop them. we note that interpol and other organisations are better experienced and more appropriate forums for criminal cooperation than any eu scheme.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because i do not wish to see uk citizens’ fingerprint data shared with foreign nations.
in writing. ‒ like the previous two countries we voted on for this automated data exchange, i voted in favour of this council draft and support the further cooperation of the polish republic in these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding cross-border exchange of dactyloscopic data (the study of fingerprints for the purposes of criminal identification, registration and investigation) in an attempt to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. following pilot projects, evaluations have shown no hindrance to eu data protection standards.
in writing. ‒ as the united kingdom did not participate in the original council decision with regard to automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, and is therefore not taking part in the adoption of this decision, i abstained on this report. while i support the objectives of the decision, which are to have more member states cooperating in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, the provisions on the exchange of dna and fingerprint material relate closely to many of the elements of prüm treaty which the uk has not yet implemented. under the prüm treaty, a member state can ask another state to check key personal data (and car registrations) against their database as part of a criminal investigation. i have significant concerns regarding certain civil liberties and data protection elements, and the cost implications related to its implementation.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report had stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which primarily dealt with the scope of protection for travellers when purchasing combinations of travel services. my reasons for abstaining were threefold. first, the scope provided for full harmonisation such that the rights of travellers and business competitiveness received equal protection. it is my belief that consumers’ rights cannot be best served when business competitiveness needs to be served as well through full harmonisation. second, the consequence of price change in the report is such that in case of a change in the cost of fuel, a traveller may be asked to pay more money. there was however no provision in the text that allowed the alternate to benefit the traveller in case the price of fuel decreased. finally, in ireland the tourism industry consists mostly of smes. according to this report, these smes would have to take out insolvency protection on behalf of larger providers than themselves when they come to be classified as a package travel provider, or, a linked travel arrangement. this report does not adequately protect a tourism industry dominated by smes and for this reason, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i note that the british government has described these changes as being ‘far from perfect’. i also note that the legislation explicitly calls for maximum harmonisation of this directive. i therefore supported the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report had stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report had stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report had stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. – ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. – ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report had stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it aims to protect consumers. planning travel online is something millions of my constituents do every year and i am glad that they are now better protected. this recognition of digital provision for travel has been long overdue and i welcome its implementation.
in writing. ‒ this was our group’s (efdd) motion, which i supported. the legislation aims to update consumer rights in the package travel sector. last year, hmg’s report called these changes ‘far from perfect’, and the legislation specifically calls for the maximum harmonisation of this directive. i and my party reject this.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the travel package proposal which guarantees more effective rules on insolvency protection for travellers in case of the trader’s insolvency; stricter liability of traders in case of underperformance of the package; improved pre-contractual information requirements and termination rights, and better protection in cases where the traveller’s return is impossible because of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report, a report that significantly updates and subsequently reaffirms basic protection for consumers when booking a series of travel services. in an increasingly digital age, it is imperative that we address the imbalance in protections and regulatory requirements between online and more traditional modes of transaction. only once this is achieved can we move towards an increased single market in this sector and facilitate greater and more efficient levels of cross-border selling and buying. improvements to the rules applying to national schemes of insolvency protection are also a welcome development in addition to the proposed deregulation in respect of business-to-business sales. when combined, this report will contribute to a more clearly defined and further-reaching package travel directive. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of the council’s position.
in writing. ‒ my fellow labour meps and i have voted in favour of this report. this report, ‘package travel and assisted travel arrangements’, will guarantee more effective rules on insolvency protection for travellers in case of the trader’s insolvency; stricter liability of traders in case of underperformance of the package; improved pre-contractual information requirements and termination rights; and better protection in cases where the traveller’s return is impossible because of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances. this represents a positive solution for consumers and businesses, ensuring better protection for both.
in writing. ‒ the travel market has changed dramatically in recent years with the move towards online booking. a revision to the legislation is therefore necessary to strengthen the rights of travellers in europe and bring new booking models within the scope of the rules. this is a positive proposal for consumers and businesses. it will guarantee more effective rules on insolvency protection for travellers in cases of trader’s insolvency and well as stricter liability for traders in case of underperformance. importantly, travellers will have the right to cancel the contract and get a refund if the price increases by more than 8% or if unavoidable events strike the place of destination.
in writing. – i and my fellow meps have voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. i believe that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. ‒ i stood behind the travel package because it seeks to protect consumers as well as businesses by improving pre-contractual information requirements and termination rights, increasing the effectiveness of insolvency protection for travellers in the case of trader’s insolvency. trader liability will be reinforced in the case of underperformance of the package and consumers will be better protected in the case of impossible return due to unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that as a result of this vote, package holidays, consisting of a flight, hotel or car-hire and purchased online for an all-in price or through linked webpages, will get the same protection as packages bought in travel agencies.
in writing. ‒ the travel package proposal represents a positive solution for consumers and businesses. it will guarantee more effective rules on insolvency protection for travellers in case of the trader’s insolvency; stricter liability of traders in case of underperformance of the package; improved pre-contractual information requirements and termination rights; and better protection in cases where the traveller’s return is impossible because of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report had stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. i supported the package reform proposal that was put forward. its main content was to adapt it to the current digital era, which i consider to be an appropriate measure within the european single market. many of my countrymen use travel services regularly, especially from neighbouring countries, and i therefore consider that better consumer protection is needed in this area.
in writing. ‒ ukip has voted in favour of rejecting the council position at second reading. whilst we are great advocates of increasing consumer rights, we are against the full harmonisation that this directive requires. in 2014 a uk government report had stated that this proposal was ‘far from perfect’. ukip believes that if national governments had the opportunity to update their own consumer protection laws they would be able to pass legislation that is the best fit for their consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the efdd amendment, which was a proposal to reject the council position. as this was a second reading there was no final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the travel package proposals because they represent a positive solution for both businesses and, very importantly, consumers. it will mean that there will be more effective rules on insolvency problems and guarantee stricter liability of traders in the cases of underperformance of the package.
in writing. ‒ in the 20 years since these regulations were introduced, the travel industry has greatly changed. gone are the days when holidaymakers would visit their local travel agency and place faith in the comprehensive travel insurance on offer. today people are using the internet to find the best deals, often doing so by booking many months in advance – it is a great example of the free market providing choice and competition. consumers should, however, feel confident that they are protected in cases where a product that is sold fails to conform to what is ultimately provided, and against company bankruptcy. the measures outlined in this report deliver those protections and so i am pleased to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed this move, as it highlights the need for a european tourism sector that is sustainable, responsible and accessible across europe. tourism is a vital cornerstone of the welsh economy, bringing in ukp 1 billion in cardiff alone. it is crucial that consumer concerns in this area are recognised. labour will continue to work with consumer groups, safety organisations and industry representatives to prevent rare but devastating cases where inadequate health and safety rules have led to tragedies, including deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning. we need to work hard together to ensure rigorous safety standards across europe, so that all holiday makers can have the peace of mind that their dream holiday is not going to turn into a nightmare.
madam president, i have just voted to ban mobile phone roaming charges. the new law will see a decrease in charges from next april by 75%, with a complete ban on extra charges in june 2017. this is great news for all of us and means that soon, when we travel within the eu, we can use our phone just the same as if we were at home. recent research by uswitch shows that currently one in six people holidaying in europe came back to a phone bill that was gbp 100 higher than normal. so this change will make a big difference to all our lives. labour mps have been at the forefront of the drive to end this roaming rip-off. soon all of us will be able to post holiday photos on facebook, twitter, and instagram without worrying about a huge bill. this is just one of the ways in which we in britain are winning a better deal thanks to european action and highlights once again why we are better off in the eu.
madam president, since 1999 when ukip meps first arrived at the european parliament, we have never voted in favour of eu legislation, in favour of giving powers to brussels. regarding roaming charges, may i just say that, contrary to the belief that only the eu can achieve this, it simply is not true. i use three for my mobile phone. during the summer i went to the usa and was able to use every feature on my phone at no extra cost. i travelled to five different states, yet despite the fact that america is not in the eu, three was able to get a roaming-free deal across america. why do we need the eu to legislate on this? there are always unintended consequences to legislation. being forced to lose a lucrative revenue stream, the telecoms companies will recoup these costs from those who do not have the privilege of a jet-set lifestyle.
madam president, depending on your phone company, there may be no roaming charges at all – and that includes places like australia – but that very much depends which company you are using. that, for the socialists among you, is the free market in action. market forces, not state intervention, better regulate the market. if the state – or indeed a socialist superstate, this one in particular – regulates the jet-setters’ phone calls, the lost profits may well be transferred elsewhere, namely, to the poor soul on the clapham omnibus or the edinburgh tram. ill thought—out consequences come from interfering in the free market. ukip is utterly opposed to interfering in the free market.
madam president, what do australia, indonesia, hong kong, the usa, israel, switzerland, macau, new zealand and sri lanka have in common? i can call back to the uk from any of those countries free of charge from my mobile phone already. in fact, there are more non-eu than eu countries on the list of countries where i can do that. it is based on consumer demand; it is based on the free market; it responds to the needs of consumers. i can do the same from italy, france and spain, within the european union. why? because they are countries where the consumer demand exists. but i cannot do that from brussels. i cannot do that from belgium, because frankly the needs of the meps are not quite enough to sway that with consumer demand just yet. by legislating on this, what we end up doing is we force companies to do something where there is not the demand, which is uncompetitive. when you force companies to do something which is uncompetitive, you put prices up for everybody. that is not right, it is not fair for the average person on the street, and yet labour still use that as example of why they think the eu is a good thing.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ this vote was broken into two parts. the first part was a vote to reject the council’s position and the second part consisted of 12 amendments, which i co-signed, to reinstall crucial definitions and references to the principle of net neutrality throughout the text. i voted in favour of all parts. my reasons for rejecting the council’s position were that during the course of negotiations, the text of this report was significantly watered down. the abolition of roaming charges initially foreseen for december 2015 was postponed until june 2017. on top of this, all references to net neutrality were deleted from the text, leaving the door completely open to a two-speed internet, an internet that would allow isps to discriminate between internet traffic to the detriment of smaller companies, newspapers and blogs. as the council’s position was completely inadequate in terms of protecting net neutrality and respecting the need to abolish roaming charges as early as possible, i voted to reject it.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. – we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ castillo vera - european single market for electronic communications: i am in support of this report to end roaming charges, as a way of allowing consumers to freely replicate their domestic usage patterns when periodically travelling in the eu. these new open internet rules will preserve net neutrality, help drive innovation and, of course, should please british holidaymakers.
in writing. – we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation to safeguard open internet access and end roaming surcharges. it is in the interests of welsh consumers and small businesses in wales to ensure that internet access remains a free and equal playing field.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this historic deal to end roaming charges across europe. from 15 june 2017, people travelling in the eu will not have to pay additional roaming charges. the end of roaming charges will be a huge benefit to holidaymakers and business travellers across the eu. the deal also ensures that, for the first time, the net neutrality principle will be enshrined into 28 national legal systems and will oblige internet service providers across europe to treat all internet traffic equally without discrimination, restriction or interference and irrespective of the sender and receiver, the content, the applications or services used.
in writing. ‒ i strongly believe that the internet must remain open and neutral. with this in mind, the end of roaming is a welcome and celebrated step for consumers. indeed, successive reductions in roaming prices have consistently proven to be one of the most tangible positive news stories of eu intervention, and the latest agreement was also welcomed by the prime minister. as a member of the conservative party, i am naturally sceptical towards market intervention but i remain both satisfied that regulatory intervention is necessary in this instance as well as reassured that appropriate safeguards have been put in place to prevent mandated losses to operators and also an increase in domestic tariffs. furthermore, in view of the growth of internet traffic, the new rules ensure that when providers manage traffic it is on a non-competitive basis to guarantee the openness of the internet. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of the council’s position.
in writing. ‒ i, along with labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report which marks the end of a long battle to end eu roaming charges and to break down artificial borders for mobile communications inside the eu. the introduction of a single market for telecoms in europe will mean all european countries will have to incorporate rules on net neutrality, which will oblige internet service providers across europe to treat all internet traffic equally without discrimination, restriction or interference and irrespective of the sender and receiver, the content, the applications or services used.
in writing. ‒ i am disappointed that parliament has failed to uphold the concept of net neutrality. eu legislation on roaming charges has largely been positive and is an area where the eu has a genuine positive impact on the lives of ordinary citizens. it is reckless to undermine this good work by abandoning the principle of net neutrality.
in writing. – my mep colleagues and i in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which marks the end of a long battle to end eu roaming charges and to break down artificial borders for mobile communications inside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that we were able at first reading to reach agreement for the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down measures concerning open internet access and amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users’ rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union.
in writing. ‒ whilst i voted today in favour of the telecommunications package, and i welcome the ending of mobile roaming, i am disappointed with the lack of appreciation for the role of network parental controls under these net neutrality rules. although there is a window in which national legislation can be put in place to avoid an eu blanket prohibition on these tools, it is disappointing to see that the eu has once again overreached and put itself at odds with a tool that parents desperately need in today’s digital world to protect their children online. fifty-four percent of uk parents operate such controls, and the eu has once more sent a message that they know what is best for their children. we must enable families and parents to monitor and safeguard their children from dangers online. parents should retain the right to choose what appropriate content is through parental controls. we must not cast parents as the threat, but rather embrace these tools as a potential solution to online dangers. this is a reasonable and flexible security mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i, along with labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report which marks the end of a long battle to end eu roaming charges and to break down artificial borders for mobile communications inside the eu.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip voted against the eu commission proposal to create an eu legislative framework on the european digital market as we believe our national representatives would do a much better job deciding whether to implement such legislation for the uk. we believe in the importance of maintaining the freedom we currently enjoy on the internet. we believe that all internet traffic should be treated equally, without discrimination, restriction or interference. for this reason, we object to the creation of new eu regulation on net neutrality and roaming. with regard to roaming, we believe that this proposal is deeply regressive, favouring well-heeled frequent travellers and disadvantaging typical users. some telecom operators have in fact admitted that the loss in revenue will be pushed onto domestic users. non-roaming customers will be subsidising frequently roaming customers and this will increase costs for the majority.
in writing. ‒ my labour colleagues and i voted in favour of this report, which finally marks an end to this long, long battle to see the end of roaming charges in the eu and to break down these unnecessary and artificial borders for mobile communications inside the eu. the introduction of a single market for telecoms in europe will mean all european countries will have to incorporate rules on net neutrality, which is a victory for civil liberties for european citizens. isps must treat all internet traffic equally and without discrimination, restriction or interference ... irrespective of the sender and receiver, the content, the application or service used.
in writing. ‒ i, along with labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report which marks the end of a long battle to end eu roaming charges and to break down artificial borders for mobile communications within the eu. the introduction of a single market for telecoms in europe will mean all european countries will have to incorporate rules on net neutrality, which will oblige internet service providers to treat all internal traffic equally without discrimination, restriction or interference and irrespective of the sender and receiver, the content, the applications or services used.
in writing. ‒ this report relates to many areas of legislation that are of great importance, net neutrality among them, but for me, and for many i suspect, the stand out point is an end to mobile phone roaming charges from june 2017 across the entire eu. this is exactly the type of legislation that the eu should be about – helping consumers, removing barriers, and furthering the single market. some in this house have sought to paint the changes as a market intervention that will provide cut-cost international roaming to a jet-set elite whilst leaving poorer, domestic customers to pick up the costs as service providers increase the price of basic tariffs to offset losses. this is complete nonsense. this was a legitimate concern during negotiations and so the legislation has been crafted with sufficient safeguards to prevent this from happening. this is a good news eu story and i am pleased to have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i, along with labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report which marks the end of a long battle to end eu roaming charges and to break down artificial borders for mobile communications inside the eu, that have hampered cross border communication and mobility for too long. the introduction of a single market for telecoms in europe will mean all european countries will have to incorporate rules on net neutrality, which will oblige internet service providers across europe to treat all internet traffic equally without discrimination, restriction or interference and irrespective of the sender and receiver, the content, the applications or services used. this is an important victory for all users of the internet in europe, and i am proud to have backed this report.
in writing. ‒ i, along with labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report which is the outcome of a long battle on important issues like net neutrality and abolishing roaming charges. the introduction of a single market for electronic communications in europe means all european countries will have to incorporate rules on net neutrality, which will oblige internet service providers to treat all internet traffic equally without discrimination, restriction or interference and irrespective of the sender and receiver, the content, the applications or services used. a free and fair internet is crucial today as it is for the world of tomorrow. freedom of expression, social empowerment, education, and inclusion depend on it. it is now up to national governments and regulators to push standards upwards from the european norm, and for civil society to remain active and vigilant on the subject.
madam president, the eu is not just a marketplace. it should, and does, defend international human rights standards. we reject the use of torture and the death penalty. indeed, the vast majority of meps voted for its abolition last month in this chamber. the way we trade with the rest of the world must reflect these fundamental values. the changes proposed by the commission and amended by meps today and in the trade committee in which i sit will improve existing eu legislation. this text will ensure that no eu company can profit from torture by oppressive regimes, and that no eu company trading in execution or torture equipment can access the eu market. i supported the report tabled and i support eu action in this field, because i support a european union which puts its principles into action.
madam president, i take a very dim view of torture and anything which could be used for torture around the world, and i recognize the difficulties which this report is trying to prevent and protect against in that respect. with the issue of capital punishment, my views are also fairly well known: i am no fan of the death penalty per se. but, at the same time, i believe that it is the sovereign right of other countries across the world to make their own decisions as to whether or not they should or should not have the death penalty. i do not believe it is for us to impose a particular worldview upon those other nations. i also have concerns that, for example, america can no longer get particular chemicals used in executions, and now they are using methods which have actually ended up being more painful rather than less, so i have a concern about unintended consequences. overall, therefore, i felt it best to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. – capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the schaake report in order to strengthen eu-wide controls in the trade in equipment that could be used for capital punishment or to abuse human rights, whilst also enabling simplified procedures for legitimate trade. the input of the uk delegations has amended this report in order enable the use of certain drugs usable in lethal execution, subject to eu export controls.
in writing. – capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i do not condone capital punishment, but i do not think it is the job of pious meps to preach to other nations about what they can and cannot do. an unintended consequence of banning materials that may be used for capital punishment is that, in the usa, there have been some gruesome scenes as a swift execution has been impossible, causing needless suffering and distress. what next? banning rope? in the end, the rapporteur asked for the vote to be cancelled so it could go back to the committee.
in writing. ‒ president, i welcome the strengthening of this legislation designed to ensure the eu is not complicit in torture, and to fulfil the eu’s commitment to standing against the death penalty and torture throughout the world. updates to this legislation will ensure eu companies do not profit from torture in oppressive regimes, and send a strong signal that those who trade in execution and torture goods, including technical assistance and supplier services, that they cannot access the eu market. in particular, i welcome new measures to improve the speed and efficiency of reacting to suspected transactions and strongly stand behind the eu ban on trading drugs intended for the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my fellow labour meps, have voted in favour of this report. as labour meps we welcome the strengthening of this legislation designed to ensure the eu is not complicit in torture, and to fulfil the eu’s commitment to standing against the death penalty and torture throughout the world. updates to this legislation will ensure eu companies do not profit from torture in oppressive regimes and sends a strong signal to those who trade in execution and torture goods that they cannot access the eu market. in particular we welcome new measures to improve the speed and efficiency of reacting to suspected transactions. we strongly stand behind the eu ban on trading drugs intended for the death penalty which labour meps and the european union stand firmly against.
in writing. ‒ we very much welcome the strengthening of this legislation, which will ensure the eu is not complicit in torture. it will also fulfil our commitment to standing against the death penalty and torture, throughout the world. we must do everything we can to ensure eu companies are not profiting from torture in oppressive regimes. in particular, we welcome new measures which will improve the speed of reacting to suspected transactions involving goods used for execution and torture. labour meps strongly support the eu ban on the trade of drugs intended for use in executions.
in writing. ‒ it is outrageous that unscrupulous dealers have been able to find loopholes in eu trade rules to allow the export of goods used in torture or for the death penalty. this has allowed european brokers to sell the equipment, the open promotion of previously prohibited equipment such as body-worn shock devices, the marketing of security equipment to police - such as electro-shock stun guns, shock batons and shock shields, and the introduction of new technologies and devices on to the market even if these items could be used in the death penalty, torture or other ill-treatment. i am proud to have supported amnesty international’s ‘grasping the nettle’ report and ‘stop torture’ campaign to strengthen the eu’s controls and today to have voted to support proposals which will now combat the european union’s complicity in what is a violation of human rights. i am proud that our human rights sub-committee has played a key role in bringing this forward and i urge the commission and council to come to quick agreement with parliament to enact today’s vote.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which closes a number of loopholes in the existing law. the eu is founded upon the respect for human rights regardless of what uk tories may argue to the contrary. it is therefore essential that we restrict the trade in goods which could be used in torture.
in writing. – capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported this report due to the importance of its subject matter: preventing the supply and trade of instruments of torture and cruel punishment in the eu. we are committed to standing against acts of torture, and thus will do all that is necessary to prevent such cruel and inhumane acts from taking place. an urgency procedure to allow immediate bans of such products has been introduced, as well as a ‘catch-all procedure’ so as to stop any export where there is reasonable concern that the goods in question would be used for torture.
in writing. ‒ i warmly welcome this report. the ‘anti-torture regulation’ contributes to the long standing eu policy of eliminating death penalty worldwide, and of preventing torture. it helps achieve these goals by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods. it governs a ban of trade in ‘single-use’ torture and execution items and related technical assistance and an authorisation system for ‘multi-purpose’ items that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injections.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the strengthening of this legislation designed to ensure the eu is not complicit in torture, and to fulfil the eu’s commitment to standing against the death penalty and torture throughout the world. updates to this legislation will ensure eu companies do not profit from torture in oppressive regimes, and send a strong signal that those who trade in execution and torture goods, including technical assistance and supplier services, that they cannot access the eu market. in particular we welcome new measures to improve the speed and efficiency of reacting to suspected transactions. i strongly stand behind the eu ban on trading drugs intended for the death penalty, which labour meps and the european union stand firmly against.
in writing. ‒ capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ capital punishment is something different nations can have differing views on. however, it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries. we feel that trade should be about trade only, and not a drum on which the eu can politically beat out its political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. capital punishment is something free nations can have differing views on. however it is not for the eu to weaponise and politicise its trade policies to try and force countries which disagree with it on the practise to stop capital punishment. we note the way the eu has materially interfered on the side of criminals in capital cases in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the strengthening of this legislation. i have been a long-time opponent to the death penalty and so too in the eu. i voted in favour of this legislation because it will ensure to a greater extent that the eu is not complicit in torture or capital punishment. eu companies must not be able to profit from torture, whether knowingly or unknowingly. the new measures in this legislation will improve the speed and efficiency of reacting to suspected transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i welcome the strengthening of this legislation designed to ensure the eu is not complicit in torture, and to fulfil the eu’s commitment to standing against the death penalty and torture throughout the world. in particular, i welcome new measures to improve the speed and efficiency of reacting to suspected transactions. i strongly support the eu ban on trading drugs intended for the death penalty, which labour meps and the european union stand firmly against.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly opposed to capital punishment. however, i do not believe that trade policy is the best instrument for expressing this opposition. we must ensure that trade in pharmaceutical products for legitimate and lifesaving purposes is not impeded due to their misuse by some countries for this abhorrent practice.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to vote in favour of this report. it is important that we make sure that we strengthen eu protections against the trade in certain goods that can be used in torture and capital punishment. these activities go against the ideals of the european union and while we cannot force non-member states to reject them, we can do all we can to ensure that europe is not aiding and abetting states that which to carry out these acts. furthermore, european companies must be prevented from profiteering on the back of the policies of these states and in particular i welcome the new measures that will improve the speed and efficiency of our reactions to any such transactions. i stand by my belief that the death penalty is wrong and this is a step towards ensuring that this practice is phased out globally.
in writing. ‒ as a human rights campaigner, i welcome the strengthening of this legislation designed to ensure the eu is not complicit in torture, and to fulfil the eu’s commitment to standing against the death penalty and torture throughout the world. updates to this legislation will ensure eu companies do not profit from torture in oppressive regimes, and send a strong signal that those who trade in execution and torture goods, including technical assistance and supplier services, that they cannot access the eu market. in particular we welcome new measures to improve the speed and efficiency of reacting to suspected transactions. i also strongly stand behind the eu ban on trading drugs intended for the death penalty, which labour meps and the european union stand firmly against. this legislation is a key example of the eu using its trading power for humanity.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contained a number of important, progressive provisions. this report emerged from the luxleaks scandal. the aim is to ensure the mandatory automatic exchange of information between tax administrations regarding advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements and to strengthen existing eu legislation. furthermore, the gue/ngl rapporteur managed to further strengthen the commission proposal in a number of key areas including strengthening reporting requirements – i.e. immediate exchange of information. my group tabled an alternative compromise stating that all rulings should be publicly available and not only stored somewhere in a central commission database in an aggregated form. the greens and efdd supported gue/ngl on this issue, but unfortunately it was rejected in committee. nevertheless, given that the report was still an improvement compared to the commission proposal and especially compared to the council position which was adopted even before the econ vote took place, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. – ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as although i am in favour of aiding tax authorities in quickly identifying tax illegalities, i cannot support the extension of the scope of the ep to all rulings that does not take into account the rules governing data protection and commercially—sensitive information.
in writing. – ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the mandatory automatic exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings as this strays too far into member states’ competency in tax matters. whilst it is right to take action against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning it is the remit of the member states to legislate. once more, the commission and parliament call for more europe when it is not necessary.
in writing. ‒ here we go again: more assaults on the member states, and making us all act as a united states of europe. in this case, making member states pass taxation code changes past the commission in advance. it is a strange sovereign nation that must ask permission first.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of automatic exchange of information on tax rulings because transparency is key when it comes to cracking down on aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion. for far too long, governments have been able to make secret agreements with companies about how much tax they’ll pay, with no scrutiny from other member states or the public as a whole. that needs to change, and while the commission’s proposals are welcome, we in the parliament believe they can and should go further. now the onus is on the council – and the uk government – to show that they are serious when they say they want to stamp out these practices once and for all.
in writing. ‒ along with other meps in the s&d group, i voted in favour of automatic exchange of information on tax rulings because transparency is absolutely vital when it comes to cracking down on tax avoidance and tax evasion. for far too long governments have been able to make secret agreements with companies about how much tax they will pay with no scrutiny from other member states or the public as a whole. this needs to change. while the commission's proposals are welcome, as labour meps in the parliament, we believe they can and should go further. it is over to david cameron and the rest of the council now to show that they are serious when they say they want to stamp out these practices once and for all.
in writing. – i abstained on this as ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as it calls to increase transparency and fight against aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal on mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of automatic exchange of information on tax rulings because transparency is absolutely vital when it comes to cracking down on aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion. for far too long, governments have been able to make secret agreements with companies about how much tax they will pay, with no scrutiny from other member states or the public as a whole. that needs to change, and while the commission’s proposals are welcome, we in the parliament believe they can and should go further. it is over to david cameron and the rest of the council now to show that they are serious when they say they want to stamp out these practices once and for all.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip is in favour of tax transparency as a means to prevent secret tax deals being done between large multi-national corporations and countries like luxembourg. however, the report includes amendments that would force member states to provide the information to the eu commission (rather than simply making it public) and would have retroactive effect – for these reasons ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as although i believe nation states should be open and transparent about taxation i do not wish to see the commission involved in how the uk manages its corporation tax.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of automatic exchange of information on tax rulings because transparency is absolutely vital when it comes to cracking down on aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion. for far too long, governments have been able to make secret agreements with companies about how much tax they’ll pay, with no scrutiny from other member states or the public as a whole. that needs to change, and while the commission’s proposals are welcome, we in parliament believe they can and should go further. it’s over to david cameron and the rest of the council now to show that they are serious when they say they want to stamp out these practices once and for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of automatic exchange of tax rulings because transparency is absolutely vital when it comes to cracking down on aggressive tax avoidance and tax evasion. for far too long, governments have been able to make secret agreements with companies about how much tax they’ll pay, with no scrutiny from other member states or from the public as a whole. that needs to change, and while the commission’s proposals are welcome, we in the parliament believe they can and should go further. it’s over to david cameron and the rest of the council now to show that they are serious when they say they want to stamp out these practices once and for all.
in writing. ‒ while i support the commission’s swift response to the challenges posed by cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition by the exchange of information for cross-border tax rulings and would like to aid tax authorities in quickly identify tax illegalities. i cannot support the ep’s change of scope to include a public exchange of all rulings through a central register. this does not take into account rules governing data protection and commercially sensitive information.
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times of the contributions that the union make. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge as i fundamentally disagree with the way that the money has been spent.
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times of the contributions that the union make. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times of the contributions that the union make. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times of the contributions that the union make. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. – artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times of the contributions that the union make. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. – artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times of the contributions that the union make. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this call for more money to be wasted on more failing it projects.
in writing. ‒ president, i have voted to grant discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings eniac and artemis, which merged in june 2014 to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative. the organisations have taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner. the second report on discharge for 2013 indicates that sufficient steps have been taken to address the main issues raised by the court of auditors, including, importantly, the introduction of new ex—post audit mechanisms in order to verify the agreements with the national funding authorities.
in writing. ‒ i have voted, alongside my colleagues in the eplp, to grant discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings eniac and artemis, which merged in june 2014 to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative. the organisations have taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner. the second report on discharge for 2013 indicates that sufficient steps have been taken to address the main issues raised by the court of auditors including, importantly, the introduction of new ex post audit mechanisms in order to verify the agreements with the national funding authorities.
in writing. – artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times of the contributions that the union make. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. i and my fellow ukip mep’s cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the discharge, as the organisation has taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted to grant discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings eniac and artemis, which merged in june 2014 to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative. the organisations have taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner. the second report on discharge for 2013 indicates that sufficient steps have been taken to address the main issues raised by the court of auditors, including, importantly, the introduction of new ex post audit mechanisms in order to verify the agreements with the national funding authorities.
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times the contributions that the union makes. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states’ contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. ‒ artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, the total funding over 10 years is worth eur 2.5 billion. the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states. there is a call for the contributions from the member states to be at least 1.8 times the contributions that the union makes. the union contribution for 2013 equates to eur 181 454 844 and the member states contribution amounts to eur 341 842 261. we cannot support this given that there is pressure on the member states to support this programme, and that competitiveness should be left to the markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it is spending vast amounts of uk taxpayers’ money, and this should be decided in the uk parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have voted to grant discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings; this one, artemis, has taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of granting discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings eniac and artemis, which merged in june 2014 to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative. the organisations have taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner. the second report on discharge for 2013 indicates that sufficient steps have been taken to address the main issues raised by the court of auditors, including, importantly, the introduction of new ex-post audit mechanisms in order to verify the agreements with the national funding authorities.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this discharge and will not vote in favour of the discharges for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. however the artemis joint undertaking is a beneficial programme for scientists across the eu and should continue to be funded at an eu level.
in writing. ‒ there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge as i fundamentally disagree with the way that the money has been spent.
in writing. ‒ there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. – there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. – there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a call for more staff and more money for a bureaucracy that wants more powers over our nation.
in writing. ‒ president, i have voted to grant eit discharge as it has shown significant progress including a comprehensive revision of the internal procedures and rules to fully comply with public procurement legislation, increased capacity and more staff training. it has also put in place a staff appraisal and re-classification system to provide a better career perspective to eit staff and reduce turnover.
in writing. ‒ i have voted with my colleagues in the eplp to grant eit discharge as it has shown significant progress, including a comprehensive revision of the internal procedures and rules to fully comply with public procurement legislation, increased capacity and more staff training. it has also put in place a staff appraisal and re-classification system to provide a better career perspective to eit staff and reduce turnover.
in writing. – there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. i and fellow meps are unable to support this this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant eit discharge as it has shown significant progress including a comprehensive revision of the internal procedures and rules to fully comply with public procurement legislation, increased capacity and more staff training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute’s budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have voted to grant eit discharge as it has shown significant progress including a comprehensive revision of the internal procedures and rules to fully comply with public procurement legislation, increased capacity and more staff training. it has also put in place a staff appraisal and re-classification system to provide a better career perspective to eit staff and reduce turnover.
in writing. ‒ there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ there is a call to increase staff and financial resources to meet eu political objectives in relation to budget and financial management. strengthening middle management levels is also a concern in relation to the increase of cost. an initial community budget contribution of eur 308.7 million has helped launch and will continue to support the eit for the 2008–2013 periods. we cannot support this due to the fact that it is linked with other innovation eu projects that pursue eu political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it is spending vast amounts of uk taxpayers’ money, and this should be decided in the uk parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have voted to grant eit discharge as it has shown significant progress, including a comprehensive revision of the internal procedures and rules to comply fully with public procurement legislation, increased capacity and more staff training. i has also put in place a staff appraisal and re-classification system to provide a better career perspective to eit staff and reduce turnover.
in writing. ‒ i have voted to grant eit discharge as it has shown significant progress including a comprehensive revision of the internal procedures and rules to fully comply with public procurement legislation, increased capacity and more staff training. it has also put in place a staff appraisal and re-classification system to provide a better career perspective to eit staff and reduce turnover.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this discharge and will not vote in favour of the discharges for any part of the eu budget until the budget as a whole receives a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. however, i fully support the work of the european institute for innovation and technology and consider it to be a hugely beneficial programme for helping scientists get their research into the market place.
in writing. ‒ there is a call for private investors to contribute to this programme as well as member states. lower contributions from member states were more than compensated by private investment; this is not welcome from our perspective due to the fact that we are concerned that our public and private sectors are not intertwined with eu political aims and objectives. the project will end in 2017 and by that time it is estimated that eur 3 billion will be spent on r&d projects. the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas) is also involved in a joint undertaking to contribute eur 30 million. member states are expected to make a contribution of 1.8 times that of the eu contribution. we cannot support such programmes that clearly put pressure on member states at a time of severe financial difficulty with other priorities that are far more essential for the citizens of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against discharge as i fundamentally disagree with the way that the money has been spent.
in writing. ‒ there is a call for private investors to contribute to this programme as well as member states. lower contributions from member states were more than compensated by private investment; this is not welcome from our perspective due to the fact that we are concerned that our public and private sectors are not intertwined with eu political aims and objectives. the project will end in 2017 and by that time it is estimated that eur 3 billion will be spent on r&d projects. the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas) is also involved in a joint undertaking to contribute eur 30 million. member states are expected to make a contribution of 1.8 times that of the eu contribution. we cannot support such programmes that clearly put pressure on member states at a time of severe financial difficulty with other priorities that are far more essential for the citizens of europe.
in writing. – there is a call for private investors to contribute to this programme as well as member states. lower contributions from member states were more than compensated by private investment; this is not welcome from our perspective due to the fact that we are concerned that our public and private sectors are not intertwined with eu political aims and objectives. the project will end in 2017 and by that time it is estimated that eur 3 billion will be spent on r&d projects.
in writing. – there is a call for private investors to contribute to this programme as well as member states. lower contributions from member states were more than compensated by private investment; this is not welcome from our perspective due to the fact that we are concerned that our public and private sectors are not intertwined with eu political aims and objectives. the project will end in 2017 and by that time it is estimated that eur 3 billion will be spent on r&d projects. the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas) is also involved in a joint undertaking to contribute eur 30 million. member states are expected to make a contribution of 1.8 times that of the eu contribution. we cannot support such programmes that clearly put pressure on member states at a time of severe financial difficulty with other priorities that are far more essential for the citizens of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge as the 2013 budget still has not been granted approval from the court of auditors. i cannot pass this budget because an ever increasing bill for my constituents is not acceptable. we should be looking for cost-saving measures and not just accept the budget if the auditors cannot.
in writing. ‒ here we go again, eur 3 billion to be spent on r&d projects that the private sector should be doing, not government. socialism failed, continues to fail, and yet we have a bunch of meps here who think it is the utopia.
in writing. ‒ president, i have voted to grant discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings eniac and artemis, which merged in june 2014 to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative. the organisations have taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner. the second report on discharge for 2013 indicates that sufficient steps have been taken to address the main issues raised by the court of auditors, including, importantly, the introduction of new ex post audit mechanisms in order to verify the agreements with the national funding authorities.
in writing. ‒ i have voted, alongside my colleagues in the eplp, to grant discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings eniac and artemis, which merged in june 2014 to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative. the organisations have taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner. the second report on discharge for 2013 indicates that sufficient steps have been taken to address the main issues raised by the court of auditors including, importantly, the introduction of new ex-post audit mechanisms in order to verify the agreements with the national funding authorities.
in writing. ‒ there is a call for private investors to contribute to this programme as well as member states. lower contributions from member states were more than compensated by private investment; this is not welcome from our perspective due to the fact that we are concerned that our public and private sectors are not intertwined with eu political aims and objectives. the project will end in 2017 and by that time it is estimated that eur 3 billion will be spent on r&d projects. the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas) is also involved in a joint undertaking to contribute eur 30 million. member states are expected to make a contribution of 1.8 times that of the eu contribution. we cannot support such programmes that clearly put pressure on member states at a time of severe financial difficulty with other priorities that are far more essential for the citizens of europe.
in writing. – there is a call for private investors to contribute to this programme as well as member states. lower contributions from member states were more than compensated by private investment; this is not welcome from our perspective due to the fact that we are concerned that our public and private sectors are not intertwined with eu political aims and objectives. the project will end in 2017 and by that time it is estimated that eur 3 billion will be spent on r&d projects. the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas) is also involved in a joint undertaking to contribute eur 30 million. member states are expected to make a contribution of 1.8 times that of the eu contribution. fellow meps and i cannot support such programmes that clearly put pressure on member states at a time of severe financial difficulty with other priorities that are far more essential for the citizens of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the discharge, as the organisation has taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ there is a call for private investors to contribute to this programme as well as member states. lower contributions from member states were more than compensated by private investment; this is not welcome from our perspective due to the fact that we are concerned that our public and private sectors are not intertwined with eu political aims and objectives. the project will end in 2017 and by that time it is estimated that eur 3 billion will be spent on r&d projects. the association for european nanoelectronics activities (aeneas) is also involved in a joint undertaking to contribute eur 30 million. member states are expected to make a contribution of 1.8 times that of the eu contribution. we cannot support such programmes that clearly put pressure on member states at a time of severe financial difficulty with other priorities that are far more essential for the citizens of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it is spending vast amounts of uk taxpayers’ money, and this should be decided in the uk parliament.
in writing. ‒ eniac and artemis merged to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative. i have voted to grand discharge, as i did with artemis, to this end and hope that they will continue to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of granting discharge for the eu’s joint undertakings eniac and artemis, which merged in june 2014 to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel) joint technology initiative. the organisations have taken measures to show that eu funds are spent in a correct and transparent manner. the second report on discharge for 2013 indicates that sufficient steps have been taken to address the main issues raised by the court of auditors, including, importantly, the introduction of new ex-post audit mechanisms in order to verify the agreements with the national funding authorities.
in writing. ‒ we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to refuse discharge, due to the various failings of the council, which are well known. i opposed the granting of discharge for the same reason.
in writing. ‒ we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty o the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted
in writing. ‒ we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted
in writing. ‒ we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted
in writing. – we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted.
in writing. – we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted.
in writing. ‒ another call for more eu! and more money! i voted against this for obvious reasons.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the council has again refused to provide any explanation on the increasing underspend and carry-overs of commitments in their 2013 budget. we agree with the commission that all eu institutions should be subject to the parliament’s discharge exercise. as labour meps we insist that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of other institutions.
in writing. – i and fellow mep’s will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to refuse discharge. i regret that again the council has refused to provide any explanation on the increasing underspending and carryovers of commitments in their 2013 budget. we insist that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of other institutions.
in writing. – i voted for this report which insists that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of other institutions and that the fundamental elements of such scrutiny have been laid down in its discharge resolutions of the past years.
in writing. ‒ i regret that again the council has refused to provide any explanation on the increasing underspending and carryovers of commitments in their 2013 budget. we agree with the commission that all eu institutions should be subject to the parliament’s discharge exercise. we insist that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of other institutions.
in writing. ‒ we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted.
in writing. ‒ as in previous years, parliament again did not grant the council discharge. i consider this a worrying point and i believe that changes must be made in this area to bring about a correction of this unsatisfactory situation for at least the next year.
in writing. ‒ we will be voting against this discharge due to the fact that it is a resource that enables the eu to function and push its wider eu message to promote political objectives. any form of ‘more eu’ will be confronted by us and certainly will be questioned in relation to funding and finance. there are calls to have updates relating to administrative modernisation and ascertain information on building projects. the eu is seeking to update the rules on granting discharge in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and expects parliament to meet the criteria of the rules before discharge is granted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it is spending vast amounts of uk taxpayers’ money, and this should be decided in the uk parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. i regret that again the council has refused to provide any explanation on the increased underspending and carryovers of commitments in their 2013 budget. we agree with the commission that all eu institutions should be subject to parliament’s discharge exercise. we insist that the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of other institutions.
in writing. ‒ the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ this is a very good report criticising the slow response from national governments and the who to the ebola crisis last year and proposing measures to ensure developing countries are equipped to deal with a similar scenario in future. it identifies the structural adjustment programmes imposed on third-world countries, and their resulting debt and reduced investment in public services, as a key contributing factor to the crisis, and calls for increased investment in national and global health systems. it also welcomes the creation of an effective vaccine this year and calls for it to be affordable and accessible to every person in sierra leone, guinea and liberia. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. – the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to amend and increase the response rate of the eu during international crises, in particular in light of the recent ebola crisis. as an international partner we need to continue to provide critical support to help staff treatment centres and labs, and help rebuild economies affected by this crisis.
in writing. – the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the lessons from the ebola crisis in the hope that institutions can be better prepared in future. in times of cross-border crises an international response is needed to facilitate help in conjunction with member states. therefore, we must build upon our reaction to ebola in order to save more lives in the future.
in writing. ‒ it is time that we learn a few things, one, that we need to support those people on the ground immediately: to act, and act quick. and two, that it is the poorest nations on the planet that suffer the most from these kinds of crises. disastrous trade deals and fishing policies have made them even poorer and more prone to such disasters. let us be compassionate, let us be civilised and let us let them trade out of their poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which shows investment in basic healthcare is a vital pillar of development. the ebola crisis has exposed this dramatically in west africa, with a terrible toll on their societies. the countries need investment to build their own healthcare systems. i support the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september. the framework has been set and now we need the action to achieve the right to health for all.
in writing. ‒ as labour meps we believe that investment in basic healthcare is a vital pillar of development. the ebola crisis has exposed this dramatically in west africa, with a terrible toll on their societies. the countries affected by this crisis need investment to build their own healthcare systems. the ebola crisis has both highlighted the structural problems that are still to be found in a number of countries and served as a reminder to eu leaders of the need to provide assistance in the development of basic social services, with the priority going to healthcare. labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september. the framework has been set and now we need the action to achieve the right to health care for all.
in writing. ‒ as the former eu chief observer for elections in sierra leone, it was with deep sadness that i saw the people of that country which has suffered so much endure yet more suffering through the explosion of the ebola crisis. already there was not a single operating theatre in the country if any of the election observers for whom i was responsible, needed urgent hospital treatment. for the people of sierra leone themselves, their country was simply unprepared for the crisis that ebola created. therefore, i very much welcome today’s resolution on the long-term lessons to be learned from the crisis and to make recommendations to strengthen health systems across african developing countries. i call on the european commission to help sierra leone and the other two countries most affected to develop their own health systems in order for them to be able to meet basic healthcare needs and to build up the infrastructure required to ensure that all their citizens have access to healthcare. if the debate which followed the ebola crisis promotes this objective, perhaps something good can have come from something which was so terrible for all affected.
in writing. ‒ the ebola crisis in parts of africa has been quite frightening and lessons must be learned from these horrific circumstances. access to medicine should be based on need, not financial resources. i welcome this report.
in writing. – i and fellow meps abstained on this vote. the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the call for universal health coverage in west africa. the devastation caused by the ebola crisis has brought the realisation that the aforementioned region desperately needs to develop its healthcare system. the objective is to prevent similar outbreaks in the future.
in writing. ‒ the ebola crisis, which is massively challenging in itself has also resulted in another problem – something which, in one of its appeals, médecins sans frontières has referred to as ‘a crisis within a crisis’. many people with conditions other than ebola are not going to hospital for fear that they will be infected with the virus. the eu must to try to find a solution to this problem, in close cooperation with our african partners.
in writing. ‒ investment in basic healthcare is a vital pillar of development. the ebola crisis has exposed this dramatically in west africa, with a terrible toll on their societies. the countries need investment to build their own healthcare systems. labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september. the framework has been set and now we need the action to achieve the right to health for all.
in writing. ‒ the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. it happens that we vote on resolutions here that one thinks are not absolutely necessary. the opposite is true of the question of how the world has managed or failed to manage the crisis of ebola. the world needs to learn from this, because unfortunately, this is not the last epidemic, and we will face similar challenges in the future. that is why i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the substance of this report is something we could primarily agree on: that long term lessons should be to prevent more crises like the ebola outbreak from happening again. but ukip firmly believes that this should not be dealt with by the eu. instead this should be dealt with by the appropriate ngos and other international organisations. for this reason we abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i do not wish to see the eu getting involved in issues that do not concern it. however i welcome national government efforts to prevent this type of disease outbreak in the future.
in writing. ‒ the ebola crisis has highlighted both the structural problems that we still find in a number of countries and served as a reminder to eu leaders of the need for them to stay true to their goal of allocating at least 20% of official assistance on the development of basic social services, giving healthcare priority. i and other labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. investment in basic healthcare is essential if development is to be ensured. this has been exposed dramatically in west africa by the ebola crisis. there must be investment in order to allow these countries to expand and develop their own healthcare systems. i, along with the other labour meps, am fully behind the call for universal health coverage: the framework has been set and now we need action in order to achieve the right to health for all.
in writing. ‒ this is a much welcomed own initiative report concerning the lessons that can be learned from this particular outbreak and how we can prevent disease spread and further loss of life in any future outbreaks. 11 314 people died from the 2014 ebola outbreak. in total over 15 000 cases were confirmed, three of which were within the eu itself as the uk, spain and italy each registered a case. i am pleased to note that, at least in these three cases, there were no fatalities. as a former medical doctor, i welcome the call for the establishment of a permanent european rapid response capability, comprising experts and laboratory support staff, epidemiologists and logistic facilities. this is an area where expertise and best practice can be best achieved by working together across the eu, in cases where we are fighting mutual threats. the reports highlighting the need to politically and economically support sierra leone, liberia and guinea is also to be welcomed. these three countries have been most affected by the outbreak and rebuilding their economies is vital.
in writing. ‒ investment in basic healthcare is a vital pillar of development. the ebola crisis has exposed this dramatically in west africa, with a terrible toll on their societies. the affected countries need investment to build their own healthcare systems. labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september. the framework has been set and now we need the action to achieve the right to health for all. i have been particularly concerned with the impact of the crisis on women and children, who are disproportionately affected when health services are overstretched. in my work on the femm committee and acp delegation, i highlight the gender aspects of humanitarian aid and support, and would like to raise these here too.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. ‒ the eu decided that diesel was clean, and would save the planet for us all!! and so pushed member states to push diesel. they then decided that sox and nox was going to kill us all, so made those car companies that were now selling shed loads of diesels to reduce the emissions that diesels emit. good luck with that one. the result... fiddling, on a mighty scale. how long has the eu known? and how long has our uk government known? this is a can of worms that must be dealt with, but shows that ill thought out, knee—jerk legislation is the worst kind. and europe is pretty good at that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we cannot tolerate intentional criminal behaviour from the side of any company, no matter the size. it not only breaks public trust and undermines the quality of european products, but it also causes significant health damage to the european population. that is why i call for the introduction of a real driving emissions test to be implemented by 2017 for all vehicles to ensure that new cars on eu roads finally meet the euro 6 limits and the establishment of an independent eu type approval authority that would oversee testing. furthermore, workers should not pay for the mistakes of the executives and every precautionary measure should be taken to guarantee that no jobs will be lost. the scandal should be seen as an opportunity for the european car industry to invest into more targeted r&d so as to move faster towards our next step which is the electrification of the european car fleet.
in writing. ‒ the ecr is deeply concerned about practices by automotive manufacturers which have deliberately set out to cheat emissions standards. this is to the detriment of consumers and the environment, and unfairly damages the reputation of the workers and suppliers linked to those companies. as noted in its own resolution, the ecr is a strong supporter of carrying out investigations in the member states into possible manipulation of the testing regime. we believe that once those investigations have been concluded, the commission will be in the possession of facts and analysis that will help shape a reformed type approval system. until those investigations are complete we do not believe we have all of the facts, and as such we cannot support a resolution which purports to know all of the answers. regrettably the joint text adopted today puts forward unsubstantiated allegations of member state and commission complicity, and prejudges the outcome of those investigations by calling for the establishment of an eu-level type approval regime, wholly out of step with the need for a measured policy based on evidence. the ecr has therefore voted against the text, and commends its own resolution to the parliament for a more considered view.
in writing. ‒ we are right to address the global scandal about volkswagen. i am proud to have campaigned successfully for the eu non-financial reporting directive – which requires companies to report and thus act on their environmental and other societal impacts. i am quite happy to say that i used volkswagen who are members of a forum called ‘econsense’, which is the environmental interest group within the german employers group, to lobby internally to help win german support for the eu directive. and they did do it. so, yes, volkswagen's corporate governance failed badly. but we should also ask ourselves: why are diesel emission standards so much tougher in america than in europe? four years ago the world health organisation changed its rating for diesel exhaust from ‘probably carcinogenic to humans’, to ‘carcinogenic to humans.’ so i will not use today’s debate just to have a cheap hit at a car company, but instead to say we must learn from the failure of markets and of the european regulatory system, to recognise the science and adapt accordingly.
in writing. – today my mep colleagues and i voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution. intentional criminal behaviour will not be tolerated as it not only breaks public trust and undermines the quality of european products but it also causes significant health damage to the european population.
in writing. ‒ it is with some regrets that i voted against this resolution, as it contains many strong points criticising the industry. i did not vote against because i think it is acceptable for car manufacturers to effectively perpetrate fraud not only with regard to those who buy their products thinking they are doing something to reduce harmful emissions, but to society as a whole, which bears the costs of those emissions. i voted against because i think it entirely wrong that the majority of this house chose to endorse the ppe amendment supporting diesel technology. ironic indeed, when we will vote on air quality standards tomorrow – knowing that diesel fuel has adverse health effects and that we need to move away this fuel. how can i tell the mayor of london to clean up our air and then support diesel cars as a way forward? we don't solve one pollution problem by fuelling another.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘strongly condemns any fraud by automobile manufacturers and urges companies to take full responsibility for their actions and to cooperate fully with the authorities in any investigations; deplores the fact that millions of consumers have been deceived and misled by false information regarding emissions from their vehicles’.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. as a czech, i have of course followed the resolutions on the car industry very closely, because my country is very strongly economically oriented towards car manufacturing. i personally believe that we need to separate the specific case of the present day from the long-term setting of rules in this field. in europe too, we must avoid excessive emotions which could turn against european industry and consequently damage european jobs. i finally voted in favour of the resolution because, in voting on the amendments, it was possible to remove those provisions which would have been openly contrary to the rational interests of european industry.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the eu resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. we believe that targets should be set at the national level by democratically accountable governments. we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as i do not want new eu regulatory frameworks relating to emission testing. however i believe that if vw is guilty as charged they should face appropriate penalties. i believe that the root cause of this is because of poorly written and over—complicated eu commission legislation.
in writing. ‒ the effect on society of poor air quality is tremendous. almost half a million premature deaths can be attributed to poor air quality, as well as costing the economy up to nearly €1 trillion every year. measures to address these dangerous pollutants – covering all sectors – are needed urgently and this legislative report seeks to address this need.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. this report suggested that diesel cars have lower carbon dioxide emissions per kilometre than equivalent petrol powered vehicles. i am technology neutral when it comes to emissions reductions and i believe that this sends the wrong signal in light of current uncertainties surrounding vehicle emission tests.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is crucial that testing programmes get under way as quickly as possible in order to ascertain what the situation is for vw and the implications for other car types. i support eu wide action to ensure potential manipulations are investigated throughout the automobile sector and to assess to what extent independence and accountability of the national type approval and testing authorities can be improved. i also believe that coordinating approaches across member states will improve consistency and enable testing of the widest range of vehicles. it is important that the resolution addresses the introduction of the real driving emission (rde) testing procedure, which would reflect real-world emissions and allow authorities to detect the use of defeat devices. the rde procedure must be introduced as soon as possible to allow for new tests which eliminate conformity factors (the multiple by which engines can exceed current emission limits) and ensure that euro 6 limits are finally met. however, i voted against this report as it made unsubstantiated allegations against both the commission and member states regarding their complicity in the actions of vw and prejudges the outcome of ongoing investigations by calling for increased eu oversight and new commission controls over the type approval regime.
in writing. ‒ the recent scandals over potential false readings of carbon emissions in certain vehicles have highlighted the importance of continued vigilance in this sphere. the threat that carbon emissions oppose to our way of society by inducing large scale climate change is a problem we must face up to very quickly. yet this is not the only chemical being poured into our atmosphere that could irreversible change our planet. i was therefore perturbed to see that member states have recently agreed to allow the further pumping of nitrous oxide from diesel cars at double the euro 6 levels agreed in 2007. therefore i backed this motion and hope that the commission and the member states can work with us in the parliament to get real on automotive emissions of all kinds instead of making a faustian pact that could compromise all of our futures.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, we need to focus on the economy, boosting competitiveness, innovation and trade, both across the single market and beyond, in traditional sectors and in the digital age. there is much in the work programme that i can agree with. i have said that every eu initiative should face that simple test: will it make it easier or harder for businesses to thrive? the commission has cut back on new legislation; you are making sure that existing laws work, and you have promised to remove more bureaucracy. you have taken 70 proposals off the table. commissioner, thank you for listening to the ecr. however, parliament’s resolution on the work programme called for a deeper political union, including european standards on welfare, health care and education. i disagree – these are matters that are better left to our national governments, and i know that many colleagues across this parliament felt the same. the single market is meant to help economic opportunity that delivers growth and jobs. you have said that this is no time for ‘business as usual’. let us not be hoodwinked by the left into proposals that could leave europe no place for business as usual.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i welcome commissioner georgieva’s proposals. she is, as usual, disciplined, controlled and sensible and for that she has my thanks and my full support. she spoke of building a budget on principles. may i suggest too, first, european added value. that means a budget which focuses its resources on those areas where it can help the member states most. for example: of course we must respond positively and urgently to the refugee crisis and of course we can and must help the farming sector through a very difficult period, but at the same time it is important that we neither get deflected from nor lose sight of the single most important thing the eu budget could be doing for europe’s citizens, and that is creating jobs and growth. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is our flagship policy here and it is vital that it delivers this year. the second policy principle is value for money. we do not have limited resources for the budget, but that does not justify parliament’s call for an ever bigger budget. the size of the budget was agreed under the terms of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and this is not the time to be going back to the member states asking for more money. rather, this is the time for us to see more focus and greater prioritisation in our spending. that means taking the tough decisions. it does mean discipline and it means that we have to do more to ensure effective, efficient delivery.
mr president, we tried to find ways of cutting the european union budget, of understanding that, at a time such as this, taxpayers actually cannot support more and more money going from the people to the european union. and so we, the efdd, put in 142 amendments to the eu budget and we watched as every single one of those 142 attempts to save money for the taxpayer of the uk and the taxpayers in all of the member states of the european union was voted down. not that we should be particularly surprised – just like the last 55 times the uk tried to oppose a measure in the council of ministers, when we were voted down 55 out of 55 times. we put forward measures on issues like the coordination, surveillance of and communication on the emu, including the euro. do we really need to be spending more money on a propaganda campaign on the euro? a tenfold increase in the cost of the european chemicals agency – again, something we do not believe is needed. we believe that money could be cut from the european union special representatives. the european council, with this whole gentleman’s agreement that supposedly exists and yet, as we have seen even today as we have talked about the 2013 discharge, the council just is not even answering parliament’s questions. well if they are not recognising a gentleman’s agreement then we should certainly not. the committee of the regions: again, a body which is getting far too much taxpayers’ money. and then we look at our own house. we should put our own house in order, see what we are spending that we do not need to be: cost of meetings and activities of former members, eur 210 000 that, frankly, does not actually make a difference to anything whatsoever. in the vast majority of these areas, we have talked about cutting rather than abolishing budget lines altogether. we have said we want to cut them – and some of them, personally, i would abolish altogether – but we see every single one voted down. that is what we get in this place. sadly, that is how things work in this place, in the european union.
mr president, here we are again. this is only my second year of dealing with the annual budget, but already it feels alarmingly familiar. however, while the dance moves are the same, the music has changed considerably. in the last year we have seen the establishment of the investment plan, a welcome recognition of the fact that to build growth in our economies we need to invest. unfortunately, the commission chose to finance this plan for growth from the part of the budget that is dedicated to building growth. it demonstrated clearly that the straightjacket of the mff as it stands is not fit for the challenges that we now face. nowhere is this more obvious than with the refugee crisis. both of these dramatic developments in the last year are areas where we are clearly stronger when we work together. but they also show the mff severely limits effective action. i therefore ask for work to be done on areas not just for the 2016 budget but also for an imaginative and ambitious agenda for the mff mid-term review.
blue-card question.– it may have been an error of translation but it appeared to come through my earphones that just then you made a comparison between israel and isis. it appeared that you compared a beacon of democracy in the middle east, which is under constant attack, to a barbaric terrorist organisation. if you did not do that could you please clarify, because i am sure you would not want to compare two things which are totally different?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, whilst i welcome any initiative to try to bring peace and stability to the region, the recent joint israeli and jordanian proposal will not solve the underlying issues. nor will it result in a lowering of the tension on the ground. placing recording devices around the al-aqsa mosque will not assist in creating a shared peaceful jerusalem, neither will they address the incredible rise in settlers’ violence or the ongoing occupation of the west bank in the seas of gaza. we must not allow israel to divert attention away from its ongoing breaches of international humanitarian law by turning this into a religious conflict. that is what restricting access to the al-aqsa mosque is designed to do. placing palestine under international protection is a necessary first step towards lowering tension and ultimately peace. ms mogherini, the international community must also demonstrate our commitment with action, because talk with talk is simply a lot of waffle, and it will help neither the palestinian people nor the israelis.
madam president, it has been my long-held belief that we must respect israel’s sovereign right to defend its borders and people from terrorism. it is also essential that we are mindful of the pain and suffering felt by those in gaza. as a consequence, we must do all that we can to help bring stability and a lasting peace to the region. yet what we have seen in recent weeks has been an upsurge in the number of senseless knife attacks carried out indiscriminately by palestinians. that some as young as 16 years of age are involved in such attacks is deeply worrying for the future of the region. while we must remain an independent arbiter in this conflict, it is essential that the quest for balance does not equate with appeasement or inaction. we must stand with those committed to democratic principles and tackle the inherent incitement to violence so engrained in the region. next week marks 20 years since the assassination of former prime minister yitzhak rabin, who notably once said ‘yes to peace, no to violence’. two decades on, his words ring more true than ever. let us stand with those who want peace, and let us ensure that our actions give neither credence nor comfort to those engaged in violence.
madam president, let us be clear here that the lone-wolf attacks being committed by palestinians against israeli soldiers and civilians are terrorist attacks. we must uphold the right of israel to defend itself against such attacks and the rights of israel in respect of the fact that the perpetrators are responsible for them, and not in any way able to claim this is a legitimate attack on innocent civilians. they are jihadi extremists espousing an ideology that is inspiring the actions of more, unfortunately. as us secretary kerry speaks of the possibility of a third intifada now and with the increasing exchange of rocket attacks within israel and the west bank, the situation is looking ever more fragile. de-escalating tensions is vital and the international community must reassert the need for a return to peace talks, particularly the arab peace initiative put forward in 2002, as the best item on the table as we speak. so i commend the high representative’s idea of inviting all sides to talks under the middle east quartet mandate. furthermore, concluding the middle east peace process with a viable two-state solution would be a huge step in defeating the poisonous ideology espoused by isis that is also ravaging the region.
blue-card question.– you raised a point calling for international action to be taken by the united states, by the european union and by arab states. bearing in mind that many of those arab states do not actually recognise the state of israel, and you speak of security and confidence for the israeli people as well, how can such action genuinely offer security and safety for the israeli people? it is a huge contradiction.
madam president, the high representative has the socialist and democratic group’s support when she calls for talks in days not months, and says that this is decision time and that there must be no fake commitment to a two–state solution. on the religious layer to the conflict, it seems that the preservation of the status quo may have been saved. but is this not a further example of us diffusing yet another additional aspect to the conflict – new provocations, temporary solutions – making us part of the cycle of violence rather than our contributing to solving its underlying causes? on the violence itself, ms mogherini is right to recognise that the different sides experience different numbers of deaths, but as i listen in my own despair to the despair which fuels the violence, when i hear the rapidity with which commentators talk about a third intifada, i want to note today that this is not yet organised violence and if the international community puts the same rapidity into seeking solutions as to predictions of a third intifada, perhaps that would do best to avert it. ms mogherini, you were right to talk to us about palestinians and israelis respecting and implementing past agreements, but that has to go for europeans too and i join with colleagues in welcoming the commitment you gave to the committee on foreign affairs to finally publish the guidelines on labelling of produce from illegal settlements. tonight i ask you to set a deadline for this to be completed. my group believes that refraining from doing so does not advance the prospects of talks, but doing so shows that the failure to advance the peace process has consequences from us too. last week i talked with muslim community representatives in my own region in the towns of cambridge, harlow and luton and they told me once again what we should understand: the grievances are not only felt in israel and palestine. deradicalisation within europe is connected to deradicalisation for palestinians and makes european action for de–escalation more urgent. finally, i join with those who remember with sorrow the assassination of yitzhak rabin on the twentieth anniversary this week of that bloody act. his daughter said in a speech at mr rabin’s graveside yesterday: ‘there is no peace process’. there is no peace process. let us hear and agree with her words and let us create one.
madam president, with so much conflict in the middle east, at least we could take some comfort from the fact that, for some time, israel was not being blamed for the conflicts that were going on. now we see this new ingredient of israel and palestine being dropped into the inferno yet again. i have to say that this is not by accident: i see the hand of hamas and others at work here, throwing petrol on the fire. ms mogherini, you will know from your conversations that mr netanyahu has repeatedly said that he is willing to engage in negotiations and the peace process without conditions. i wonder, when you saw mahmoud abbas on monday, did you actually put this to him? did you condemn the palestinian violence, which has brought about the murder of a number of israelis? did you remind him, by the way, of the extent to which his palestinian authority is reliant on eu funding? did you urge him to immediately take up the israeli offer of an unconditional resumption of negotiations? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – look, we can go on and go round and round in circles all the time on these issues. the fact is, there is an offer on the table to re—open negotiations. let us resume those negotiations. and you say: is the hand of hamas there? of course it is, because these people, they only live off the violence that exists amongst the palestinians. the palestinian people want to live in peace and prosperity. they have been let down by their leaders over many, many decades now and it is time to get over this particular problem. israel and palestine together, they could create a really vibrant successful two-state solution in that part of the world. think of all the benefits that would flow from that. but you have got to stop the terrorism, stop the extremism and get back to the negotiating table.
blue-card question.– thank you for taking the blue card. would you not accept that israel is taking such steps to build cultural bridges, as demonstrated with regard to the agreement that has been agreed through jordan with regard to the temple mount and the western wall?
madam president, the latest developments in the escalation of israeli-palestinian violence will not bring about peace. israeli and palestinian leaders need to use their authority to curb, rather than incite, the current wave of violence. there is no sense of future with israel systematically eating away at palestinian land. there is a feeling among palestinians that no one cares. the two-state solution is at risk of being lost; it must not remain a dream. violence only brings about more violence. the great danger is that it will turn into a religious conflict. there is a lack of attention from the international community. we, the eu, cannot turn our backs on this. people are crying out for a solution: we must give them hope. it is the right of every human being to live with dignity, peace and security: two states living side by side in peace and security. ms mogherini, as my colleague, mr carver, asked: when do you plan to adopt and publish the eu guidelines on the labelling of settlement products?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, since achieving independence in 2011, south sudan has been in the headlines for all the wrong reasons. as an early proponent myself of the benefits of sudan’s splitting into two separate states, i am greatly saddened by the internal conflict that has since ensued. thousands have died and millions are now internally displaced, with the situation only worsening since december 2013. following a series of failed ceasefires, it was announced yesterday that the parties from all sides had finally reached agreement as to the details regarding the implementation of measures agreed in august of this year. reports suggest that these talks are a significant step forward as to resolving some tensions, but we must remain cautious with our optimism. the eu and member state governments must now support the work of igad, the regional body that is mediating the talks along with the african union. the un also has announced the deployment of a mission to south sudan that will investigate human rights abuses against civilians since december 2013, which my group, the ecr, welcomes. but to be absolutely frank, we all miss the late john garang’s strong leadership. sadly, he is no longer in the region. he is no longer with us.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, bearing in mind the rampant desire within this place to move towards a common foreign policy, i would be interested to hear whether the high representative places any real confidence in the south sudan leadership – both governmental and opposition – to deliver the agreement in good faith. after all, these are the same leaders who were responsible for downing un helicopters in 2012 and 2014 and the 2013 attacks on both a un convoy and the unmiss camp at akobo. then there are the continuing arrests and detentions of igad monitoring staff whilst un staff and contractors continue to be abducted. is there any evidence, commissioner, of the lord’s resistance army working inside south sudan in tandem, or whether former vice-president, riek machar, enjoys military support from them, as rumours indicate? finally, given the excellent work undertaken by igad, could she comment on the eu’s engagement with igad on southern sudan, and more widely in the horn of africa? does she feel that such eu engagement further complicates their operation on the ground and raises possible duplication of work?
mr president, i would like to say to the vice-president of the commission/high representative that she ended the last debate by apologising for being passionate. i do not think you should apologise, madam, because passion shows you care, and when you care you will get things done. i hope very much that by raising the issue of south sudan tonight we are showing that we care and are asking you to help us do something about what has become one of the world’s forgotten crises. you mentioned some of the difficulties. ngos on the ground have written to meps talking about thousands of civilians killed, thousands of women raped and children abducted. this weekend the un agencies – the world food programme, the food and agriculture organization and unicef – warned of imminent famine. so we have got to do something. you are trying to up the diplomacy, putting pressure on the warring factions to come back to the table and to respect the ceasefire. but what do we do if they will not agree? what can we do about it? how can we get tough? colleagues spoke about arms embargoes, sanctions, and sanctions against the right people; not at the low level, but the most senior representatives. can we have sanctions and will they bite? have they been discussed with our partners, like the united states, and also can we have projects to give women a voice in this country? if they had a voice, i think some of the policies could change. finally, just to say, as i said at beginning, we need a sense of urgency about this because it is a forgotten crisis but if we do not act soon that forgotten crisis will soon be on our television screens in the form of starving children, in the form of more women being raped. it is a very familiar scene from africa, but it is one we could avoid if we act now.
blue-card question. – am i to understand from your speech that you see this report as the key to socialist redistribution of wealth on a grand scale across the eu? would you say that this is the key reason for this report: a socialist design for redistribution?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, ‘off target: the case for bringing eu regional policy back home’ by open europe, is, i believe, the best policy document on this subject that there is. it could form the blueprint for radical change without decreasing the funding going to newer member states. i have called on the uk government to include these open europe proposals in its reform and renegotiation discussions. after all, we are talking about a third of the eu’s total budget. if the possibility of brexit does not mean that it is time to push for big changes, then when is? at the moment, the policy brings to mind punch magazine of 1895 and george du maurier’s curate’s egg: ‘i am afraid you have got a bad egg, mr jones’ – ‘oh no, my lord, i assure you that some parts of it are excellent!’ thus, the ecr group welcomes mr ruas’s report, but it should be just the start. ultimately, i want regional development that is time—limited, not permanent, so that the cohesion money is used rightly, as an investment and not as a way of life. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– that is quite difficult to explain briefly, but it is about not shuffling money around from one country to another, and not particularly that large-scale recipient countries give money to the commission that the commission then gives them back and tells them what to do. rather, it is focusing on countries like yours, in situations like yours, so that cohesion achieves sustainable economic growth and lifts people out of that situation for the benefit of everybody within the eu – on a limited basis, not forever.
madam president, article 23 of the common provisions regulation is a destructive mechanism that further entrenches austerity policies and threatens to undermine the goals of cohesion policy. both sinn féin and gue/ngl group are fundamentally opposed to this mechanism on a number of fronts. the provision is fundamentally undemocratic and was imposed despite strong opposition from this parliament. despite a few token concessions in negotiation, the commission and council have further diluted the powers of the european parliament in imposing this mechanism. we do not accept that the purpose of article 23 is to achieve a more sustainable and efficient cohesion policy: it is about imposing antisocial diktats to strengthen and deepen a failing monetary union. by linking investment co-financing through european structural and investment funds to national deficits, it imposes austerity policies on local and regional authorities for budgetary issues beyond their control. forced re-programming and suspension of funds under the provision will cause significant harm, particularly to vulnerable regions and member states still suffering from the economic and social crisis. my resolution demands that the commission should not use article 23 and that it should immediately move for its review. it should be replaced by a democratic mechanism involving parliament and the effective communities and partners.
madam president, regional development and cohesion policies are exactly about preparing the ground for the united states of europe. we spend meeting after meeting redistributing taxpayers’ money to facilitate this state-building. the eu wants to use the europe 2020 programme to create jobs, innovation, combat climate change, encourage sustainable energy and fight poverty. these are all functions of the nation—state. the eu is not a nation—state. these measures are simply the eu superstate rearing its ugly head. it wants socialist wealth redistribution on a grand scale across the union. it wants to set the priorities of all of europe in a united states of europe. we say: no, no, no.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i listened to the opening statements outlining the goals proposed and attempting to justify them. quite frankly, i was aghast to hear some of what i heard. there is a famous author called george orwell who would have been proud of what was outlined this evening. the feelings of those who are frightened by the contents of his book would have been substantiated. more control of the electoral outcome seems to be the goal: even less democracy, despite the calls for it. just look at what happened recently in portugal in terms of the election outcome there! is the goal in what i have heard this evening, and what is being outlined, to ignore the will of the people and ignore a democratic electoral outcome? i have heard no account thus far of the scale of global cyber-attacks or personal id theft, and yet we have this whole focus on electronic voting and suchlike. i am going to finish by saying that electoral law is a matter for sovereign nations, not for this chamber – to which it is alien.
in writing.– many of the ideas floated in this report are unacceptable. many of the tabled amendments are even more unpalatable. the rapporteurs, a ‘grand coalition’ of epp and socialist groups, refer to their perceived need to avoid ‘further fragmentation’ of the european parliament. that statement exemplifies the traditional approach of the two larger groups in this parliament – they would use any opportunity to place obstacles, such as mandatory thresholds, in the way of parties and groups other than their own. the diversity of views represented in this parliament is, in my view, a considerable asset and a direct result of a democratic election process rather than an obstacle to it. i have not seen any beneficial effect arising from the notion of lead candidates, supposedly gathering votes from across the entire eu. the amendments which propose a 25-strong transnational list of candidates at european elections are not likely to lead to any greater level of voter interest in future european parliament elections. in my view, transnational lists simply are another mechanism which would mainly benefit the two largest groups in this parliament. i will be voting against all of the amendments which are supportive of the principle of transnational lists.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, in over 20 years of elected public office service this must be amongst the most gerrymandered of political processes i have witnessed to date. i do not make these comments lightly. i have been involved in the legal affairs committee in trying to work with colleagues, including the rapporteur, on trying to reach a proper solution to the problem that was presented to us. but yet again, though there is a genuine case for reform we have made a choice to actually surrender that genuine opportunity and sacrifice it on the altar of political expediency, to arrive at a solution which is actually a non-solution. when our citizens from right across the european union are demanding genuine reforms that reflect actual service to them, we have chosen to come forward once again with a compromise solution that actually adds to the burdens of those citizens but does nothing about providing a solution to the problem that was presented to us. we are about to spend eur 20 million a year extra where there was absolutely no need for us to add even one single euro cent to the burden for european taxpayers. we are failing each of our citizens by pushing this through and that is why i have taken the step, without any small measure of burden being attached, of moving an amendment to the resolution that rejects the council position. i call upon colleagues – and i know many of them have stated to me in private how they know and they recognise that in years to come we will come to regret this decision – to support my move.
madam president, when even the rapporteur is highly critical of his proposal, then – to use a parody – ‘houston, we have a problem’. well, fellow meps, we have a serious problem. even the rapporteur cannot sell this proposal to us. just consider a selection of his comments: ‘it shows a deep contempt for taxpayers’ money’; ‘no sense for the european union to increase spending so frivolously’; ‘this legislative initiative clearly lacks transparency, both internally and externally’; ‘there has not even been a cost-benefit analysis or any impact assessment’. he ends by calling for rejection of the proposal. the rapporteur’s comments are robust, justified, and should be followed. rejection is the only course of action and this chamber should follow his recommendations, otherwise why in the hell do we have rapporteurs?
blue-card question.– you are obviously from ireland. i would like to ask you whether you would like to ban the use of gm protein for irish livestock, bearing in mind that your country is very heavily dependent on livestock for its own livelihood? most of your cows are fed gm protein, as are all your pigs and most of your poultry. is it your wish to stop that happening?
mr president, providing food for a growing world population is going to be a big challenge, and it is clear that new technology, including gm, will have to be a significant part of the solution. but i am not persuaded by the commission’s proposal as it stands. commissioner, if you allow approval or rejection to be based at individual member state level you will create two problems. first, we would be allowing food policy to be based on emotion, not on sound, evidence-based science. second, we would expose some sectors – and i am thinking particularly of the livestock sector here – to exclusion to much of the single market. those two points of principle must prevail: the single market and sound evidence-based policymaking. i therefore support mr la via and his rejection of the commission proposal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i welcome mr ashworth’s decision to reject this proposal but, as a fellow british mep, i would like to draw his attention to the fact that it was actually a british ruse to break the single market and to allow gmos to be registered in particular member states and rejected in other member states, in the case of feed, that led us to exactly this problem. we have heard from mr andriukaitis that this proposal will bring us closer to the citizens, but many speakers have rejected that and have said that, in fact, it is an anti—democratic move and part of an attempt to steamroll us into accepting gmos when we do not wish to do so. so i would like to ask mr ashworth whether his rejection of the commission proposal is consistent with the position the british government has taken on gmos and whether this is driven more by a desire to feed the world’s poor or a by a eurosceptic approach to european policy—making.
blue-card answer.– i repeat comments which i made earlier: that decision-making must be sound, scientific and evidence-based. contrary to your comments, it has nothing to do with my political views or thoughts of the european union. my thoughts, particularly as a farmer myself, are the challenge of feeding a growing world. science, technology and gm have to be part of that solution.
mr president, we support the proposal for a revision of current eu regulation on the authorisation system of gmos in europe. however, we reject the rapporteur’s view on gmos as we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and decide if it wishes to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed in its own country. we do not agree with the restrictions put in place by the commission with respect to the right of opting out. in particular, we think that each member state should have the right to ban a product if its representatives believe that the product could be a danger to human and animal health or to the environment. similarly, we do not consider that a prior decision in this instance from the european food safety authority (efsa) is sufficient, due to the inexcusable lack of transparency and the impossibility of accessing data for independent research and, to be honest, the dubious test method used both for gm and feed. in short, we believe that the prior risk assessment method used by efsa is too short and risky. all documents used for the prior evaluation should be available for independent research, and each member state should be able to take such crucial decisions without interference by unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
mr president, regulating gmos is a question of both reason and responsibility. reason should dictate whether we decide to use gmos in the first place. some gmos are known for their potential to contribute to tackling the challenge of global food security and can deliver positive agricultural and health impacts. on the other hand, some gmos can encourage farmers to use even more chemicals that cause considerable damage to biodiversity, the environment and, especially, cause climate change. responsibility must therefore be our guiding principle with regards to eu gmo policy. the heart of our policy must be an independent, thorough, case-by-case assessment of each new gm trait by the european food safety authority. in this way, incentives for further scientific research are preserved and the centralisation of the process ensures the integrity of the single market. the commission’s proposal, alas, fails on both counts and therefore should be rejected. let our gmo policy be guided by reason and responsibility within a common european approach.
rapporteur.– mr president, let me make very clear what is at stake here today. rejecting the delegate deal with the council and commission would risk extending the shelf life of an old regulation that is no longer fit for purpose and that is slow to respond to market needs and safety concerns. our agri-food sector is constantly changing, constantly adapting and improving. we must always be prepared for change. we need a legislative framework in place to keep up with the technological developments of the past 20 years. for example, with regard to nanotechnology and cell tissue cultures, the new innovations must have a proper legal framework securing food safety standards. a new, single and centralised procedure for the authorisation of novel foods and more robust data protection will provide applicants with greater legal certainty, reduce the administrative burden for smes and therefore encourage further innovation in the agri-food sector across europe. it will not compromise our safety standards, which are the highest in the world, and we are rightly proud of them. on the contrary, the enhanced role for the european food safety authority and increased transparency in the process can only improve these standards. the novel foods regulation has had a long and arduous history. i want us to make a breakthrough today. during the negotiations on novel foods we have managed to come much further than parliament had done in the past. i am pleased with the substantial progress that has been made on a number of issues, and i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and all who worked on this to bring it thus far. on nanomaterials, the definition has been moved to this regulation to reflect the safety concerns of this house, and it will be updated, by means of a delegated act, to reflect scientific progress: in other words, parliament is being given a say on how the definition is updated. the wording on the test methods for nanomaterials has been strengthened, while taking into account environmental and consumer protection. on the environment, this regulation should take into account a high level of protection and improvement in the quality of the environment. on animal welfare, the regulation has been strengthened in terms of animal-welfare measures, urging that testing on animals should be replaced, reduced or refined. the transparency of the process has been significantly strengthened: by obliging the commission to publish the summary of every application and through the fact that the list of rejected applications should be publicly available. food consisting of, isolated from, or produced from cell or tissue cultures derived from animals, plants, micro-organisms, fungi or algae is now explicitly mentioned in the scope of the regulation. the precautionary principle is explicitly mentioned in the articles as a main factor for the commission in deciding whether to propose to authorise a novel food. a provision has also been added to align time periods with regard to data protection under the novel foods and health claims regulations, which will act as a stimulant to innovation. the regulation also makes it easier for traditional food from one or more third countries to be placed on the internal market. this is particularly welcome for developing countries attempting to export their traditional products. nevertheless, and quite rightly, any food imported from these third countries must meet our high quality standards. let me also comment on two other issues. cloning no longer belongs in this proposal. after the collapse of 2011, the commission rightly separated out the cloning issue to different files. if you disagree with the commission proposals, then the right place to have the debate is in relation to those files. insisting on tackling the cloning issue here benefits no one, whatever side of the debate you are on: clearly the council will not move on novel foods unless it moves on other files. but if the council moves on other files it is no longer necessary to do anything on novel foods. some did want novel food to be authorised by delegated acts, but there is a confusion here. if we are a parliament representing the people of europe, we have to act as a parliament: it is up to us to set the legal framework, not to implement it. we are the legislature, not the executive branch of government. the concept of parliament deciding on authorisations for companies seems to me a very strange one. to sum up, i want the european food sector to continue to lead rather than follow. we need legislation that can keep pace with new technologies, otherwise i greatly fear that we will be left behind.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade.– mr president, the eu has a proud track record of protecting consumers’ rights and making sure that the food that ends up on our plates is safe to eat, while keeping pace with innovation. in the committee on international trade (inta) of the european parliament, we safeguarded the precautionary principle when dealing with foodstuffs that are new to us, but have traditionally been consumed safely in other countries. we called for parliament to retain the power to veto any decision to update the list of new foods authorised to access the eu market. without these elements, we risk losing the careful balance that we hold dear in the eu between innovation and safety. i urge colleagues from all political groups to pursue legislation that helps the eu to keep us and our food safe. we need a clear, transparent and secure framework for dealing with the new foodstuffs.
mr president, first let me congratulate the rapporteur in this report, my colleague jim nicholson. this was indeed a technically difficult and politically sensitive report and it is quite a challenge to get the balance right on this one. it is an important report, reflecting the need to find a resolution which informs and protects consumers across the eu. i believe that the compromise text goes some way to providing this, and i would encourage this house to look carefully at the text before voting later on the report. in relation to cloning, i believe that this issue should be addressed outside the remit of the report and that ongoing discussions should be based on clear scientific evidence. products should be clearly labelled and ensure that food safety is of paramount importance. it is also important that the text of this report is reviewed regularly to take into account scientific and technical developments within the industry. this will ensure that the regulation is fit for purpose and delivers for both consumers and processors.
madam president, the people of britain are tired of absurd eu laws and this eu regulation on novel foods is another perfect example of the commission obstructing the free market system economy in europe. it is no secret that this new eu regulation on novel foods is complex, expensive and time-consuming. it is a burden for the applicants and disadvantageous to the economies of member states, and we believe that the extremely complex eu bureaucracy is interfering in decisions that should be made in our national parliament. why should britain support this authorisation procedure? this proposal, which authorises the commission to decide on the entire authorisation procedure in addition to the removal of old food categories, will compromise consumers’ confidence while causing legal uncertainty for operators. in ukip we give absolute priority to our citizens’ health and safety and believe that member states alone should make the initial safety assessment.
member of the commission.– madam president, you have heard my explanations setting out the commission’s views on this proposed new regulation on novel food. i have also listened to the views of this house with great interest. i was a little bit surprised to hear comments from some members on the issues of cloning. i think that two issues are now clearly distinct. the commission has proposed separate legislation on the specific issue of cloning and members commented on it last september. this legislation is only about novel foods and does not affect cloning at all. the right of information for consumers, as was mentioned, already exists in the regulation on food information to consumers. the new nanotechnology definition will be based on science. there will be an obligation to label the presence of nanotechnologies. therefore, only safe nanotechnologies will be allowed. the efsa opinion will be labelled in all cases. it is important to reach an agreement on these new rules in order to contribute to innovation in the agri-food sector without compromising on food safety. i believe that the text in front of us fully achieves these goals and i therefore fully support it.
rapporteur.– madam president, can i add my thanks to all those who took part in this debate. it has been very useful and i would again like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs. this was a particularly delicate file to try to move forward and it was not easy at times. we had tremendous difficulties and it was tough, but during that tough time we acted in a very professional way and i pay tribute to them. can i also pay a special tribute to mr la via, the chair of the committee, for his sterling work and his role in finding a way forward. it is time to move forward. we simply cannot risk extending the shelf life of an existing out-of-date regulation, so it is time, in my opinion, to move forward. i know there are many concerns about cloning but that is the responsibility of others; that is the responsibility of another file. quite clearly, on nanomaterials, the definition has been moved to reflect safety concerns of parliament and will be updated to reflect a scientific process through a delegated act. that is the reality. can i say that i appreciate the concern on labelling but in the regulation, in the relevant article, it is clear. the words used are that it should be ‘appropriately labelled for the final consumer’. what more safety do we want in labelling for the final consumer? so i think we have brought forward a good report with tremendous difficulty, highly technical, something that europe needs and requires. to those who say it is over-regulation, i am afraid on this occasion this is good regulation that will allow the industry, the small industry, to move forward. i would say to ukip, as a parting stance, that as the small and medium-sized enterprises in the uk need this probably more than any other part of europe, i hope they may change their mind or whatever they may want to do.
rapporteur.– madam president, europe needs to take action to clean up its air. that is the key message of the review of the nec directive that will be voting on in a couple of hours. we need to set ambitious targets on key pollutants taking us forward to 2030 and beyond. the reason why is obvious, but let me spell it out: air pollution is the number one environmental cause of death in the eu. over 400 000 of our citizens die prematurely each year and millions more suffer debilitating illness, medication and hospitalisation. this has an enormous human and economic cost: tens of billions of euros in days lost at work, and even more spent on health care bills. air pollution also hits the natural environment through eutrophication and acid deposition. so, in december 2013, the commission published its clean air package, which includes the nec directive. the central plank of the proposal is the setting of emissions reductions targets in all member states for 2030, for six pollutants. this proposal was accompanied by a 352-page impact assessment. this file has had a difficult passage through the process. parliament agreed to commission an additional impact assessment of our own, which was finally published in october 2014, after the european elections. at the same time, the commission’s work programme suggested that they were considering withdrawing the whole proposal, and a lot of time and effort went into ensuring that this did not happen. i still feel strongly, as your rapporteur, that this is a key issue that is best tackled at eu level. air pollution does not stop at member state borders. i passionately believe that better regulation and good air quality are not mutually exclusive, and this is why i fought so hard to keep this proposal alive. this is a very important point for me because, having invested so much time and political capital into making sure the proposal stayed on the table, it really is imperative that we vote responsibly today, finding a consensus that garners broad support on all the key issues. that means not supporting the environment committee’s position on lower ceilings across all pollutants, and supporting amendments on ammonia. there will be very many people here who will say that this is not ambitious enough, that we need to push further, but i would like them to take another look at the facts. the proposal i am supporting delivers a 52% improvement in health outcomes. it rejects the commission’s proposed flexibility for shipping, has added mandatory targets for 2025 on all pollutants, offers vastly improved access to justice for citizens affected by poor air quality, as well as improvements on national air pollution control programs and reporting. this will help all levels of government in member states, including the regional and sub-regional authorities that have engaged so vigorously in the lobbying process. frankly, this is the first time that i have ever experienced this so starkly with regional authorities: a real bottom-up demand for action. my report pushes the commission to ensure that the rde legislation is agreed as soon as possible. we all agree that nox must be dealt with urgently. the public are demanding action in this area following the recent revelations from the car industry. what about agriculture? across europe farmers are concerned about demands to decrease output of ammonia. if they are going to achieve this, they will need help, both technically and financially. that is why i have proposed an amendment asking for a review of ammonia targets by 2022 in line with scientific evidence and a new article on access to funding, calling on the commission to support farmers through its mid-term review of cap greening. so, to those of you who are thinking of voting for even tougher targets, let me just say: think very carefully. we do not currently have a position from council on this file. we do know that many member states, including some of the biggest, have not yet presented their positions. they are waiting for this plenary vote to see where parliament will go, so let us not signal intransigence. let us not choose political grandstanding. let us not play to the gallery. the ep should be ambitious, but also pragmatic. let us strike the right balance and get this dossier moving quickly towards trialogue. i do not want to be responsible for any more delay – let us give our citizens a rapid route to improved air quality. it is what they demand, and it is what they deserve. finally, can i just say a big thank you to all the shadow rapporteurs, thank you for your help, and a special mention for kateřina konečná from the gue/ngl group who cannot be with us today as she delivered her baby boy a few days ago. i am sure we all wish to send her our congratulations. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this issue, and also the shadow rapporteurs. although we have not always agreed on everything, the spirit in which we conducted our conversations has been amicable and productive. i would like to thank the s&d secretariat, and emily iona in particular for all her work, as well as my fantastic, wonderful office, and alex keynes in particular for his superlative work on this issue. this is an issue that has never been higher on the public agenda or in terms of public awareness. it is not 400 000 but closer to 700 000 europeans who are dying every year from the effects of the poisonous air that we are breathing. if you think about that over a decade, that is some 7 million people. that is the population of bulgaria. the human cost in terms of lost loved ones and the loss of human life is obvious, but the economic cost is also there. it runs into hundreds of billions of euros. quite simply, the cost of doing nothing far outweighs the cost of getting to grips with this issue. that is why we are here today, supporting strong, binding and – crucially – linear targets to reduce the harmful emittents; legal tools to hold governments that do not comply to account; extra powers for local authorities; additional standards on vehicle testing; and – here is the vital point – a principle that every contributing sector must play its part in reducing harmful emissions. this is a good directive and it deserves the support of the whole house. we are an amazing, adaptive species. we have conquered diseases, we have extended our life expectancy and we have even landed on the moon. i refuse to believe that it is beyond our wit to grow our economies, travel the world and farm our land without poisoning the air. if we set ourselves this ambition, there is no limit to what we can achieve. let us do the right thing today and combine comprehensive ambition with comprehensive action. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is a serious issue so let us all take a deep breath. but the air in here is not what all our citizens have to breathe on a daily basis. when we think about air pollution, we think of the short-term episodes in big cities like paris and london. the reality, however, is much, much worse. air pollution across europe kills 10 times more people than all road traffic accidents. more people die from poor air quality than from smoking. poor air circulates around us all and is as likely in the countryside as it is in the cities. in my own country, the uk, it is estimated that 55 000 people are dying from poor air quality every year. ninety percent of all europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health. i supported a high level of ambition during the committee stage and will continue to do so today. this is based on robust evidence commissioned by this house, which showed that we can prevent more people dying prematurely. governments must step up their efforts to comply with better air pollution measures, and the 2025 targets mean member states can start planning now. this is not just an issue with the motor trade, but vw has highlighted to the public what is happening to the air we all breathe. so it is important that every part of our economies take action to share the load to make the air cleaner and safer in europe by 2030. ammonia emissions must be addressed. delaying action on this simply causes more pollution. this is not designed to target any one sector unfairly, and that includes agriculture. we must all play our part. we also need the quick introduction of emissions tests under real driving conditions across the whole of europe. the volkswagen scandal has shown that europeans do care deeply about air quality, and we here must help them all breathe much more easily.
madam president, i would like to congratulate ms girling for the hard work that she has done on this report. we, in my party, share her concern about sox and nox and particulates, because unlike co2 they are indeed genuine pollutants that damage human health. however, unlike ms girling, we take the view that these decisions and these targets should be taken and set by democratically elected parliaments at the national level, and not by unrepresentative, unaccountable bureaucratic institutions in foreign countries. in december we have the un climate conference in paris. even the ipcc has recognised the importance of inviting proposals from independent countries rather than imposing them top down. this eu plan has different targets for different pollutants in different countries. what more evidence do we need that this should be done at the national level and should not be done at the european level? we in my country know that we shall not have the right to make those decisions until britain leaves the european union.
rapporteur.– madam president, i want to just make the point that what we agree on in this directive is far more significant than what we disagree on. but that does not mean that those areas of disagreement are not significant. they are. so i would like to ask those in this chamber who are considering voting for targets which, we have heard, many of us believe are unattainable and will lead to considerable delays in coming to an agreement with the commission, to please think again before they vote today. there is no disagreement on health impacts. nobody can lecture me on health impacts. i understand them completely. that is what we want to get to, but we want to get to it quickly. we do not want any more delay. please do not be responsible for delay.
mr president, this is a point of order because, after 20 years in this place, the accounts still have not been signed off. so, as we come to vote on this year’s budget, could i make a request, on behalf of all members of the european parliament, that maybe the auditors can get their job done properly, and after 20 years we can see proper accounts?
mr president, so we come to paragraph 77, which states: ‘stresses that parliament and the council must address the need for a roadmap to a single seat, as requested by a large majority in this parliament in several resolutions, in order to create long term savings in the union budget’. i propose an oral amendment to add the following: ‘notes the conference of presidents’ decision of 11 february 2015 to consider this issue as part of an ongoing report in the committee on constitutional affairs (afco); urges the rapporteur guy verhofstadt to bring forward his proposals within the next six months’.
rapporteur.– mr president, a short speech: i would like to postpone the final vote, please, to enter negotiations in trilogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of important provisions. specifically, it highlighted that the european union is currently facing a number of serious emergencies, notably the unprecedented migration and refugee crisis. this report called for financial resources to be deployed in the eu budget, in order to match the political challenges and therefore enable the eu to deliver and effectively respond to these crises, as a matter of utmost urgency and priority. whilst of course the refugee and migration crisis cannot be solved by financial resources alone, in these extraordinary times, extraordinary measures are required and a strong political commitment is needed to secure fresh appropriations for this purpose. it was for these reasons, amongst others, that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the priority must always be to ensure value for money, that not a penny of taxpayers’ money is spent for the wrong reasons or wasted. the money does not belong to the european union, but to citizens. i therefore voted against the budget, and in favour of those amendments which sought to improve the accountability of the eu institutions, which cut the costs for the taxpayer, and which would have shown us taking a lead in reducing our expenditure here in parliament. sadly, these good amendments were voted down.
in writing. ‒ the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted against the draft general budget of the european union for 2016. breaking the mff ceilings is not a fiscally responsible proposition. the focus of spending should be on tackling the major challenges we are faced with today: creating jobs and growth, supporting sustainable development and innovation, and managing the refugee crisis in a responsible and humane way.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a number of measures which would have seen the overall eu budget increase and against proposed rises for agricultural subsidies, including bullfighting subsidies, and administration. i voted instead to focus the eu budget more heavily upon investment for growth and jobs and voted for regional funding that goes directly to communities that are best able to determine how to deliver for people locally. i want to see a real budget reform in the eu, with areas that do not bring any real benefits to our constituents cut.
in writing. ‒ i voted against an increase in the eu budget today, which goes beyond the multiannual financial framework (mff), the eu’s seven-year framework regulating its annual budget. i have voted to reprioritise the budget towards spending on growth, jobs and innovation – in particular the youth employment initiative, which should be an eu priority. i have also backed increased funding for refugees to help countries cope with the current humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this draft budget due to the huge spending increases. i am against the eu wasting taxpayers’ money in this way.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the parliament’s negotiating position for the budget of the european union because i do not believe that breaking the mff ceilings is a fiscally responsible proposition at this time. as my colleague has said, more of the eu budget needs to be spent on creating growth and more flexibility is needed to reprioritise the budget and direct it towards priority areas, such as the current humanitarian crisis and greater investment for growth. i could not agree more.
in writing. ‒ the priority must always be to ensure value for money, that not a penny of taxpayers’ money is spent for the wrong reasons or wasted. the money does not belong to the european union, but to citizens. i therefore voted against the budget report, and in favour of those amendments which sought to improve the accountability of the eu institutions, which cut the costs for the taxpayer, and which would have shown us taking a lead in reducing our expenditure here in the parliament. sadly, these good amendments were voted down.
in writing. ‒ the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. – the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report and thus against an eu spending increase. if this report were enacted the amendments would exhaust several margins and the expenditure agreed as part of the multinational financial framework (mff) for years 2014-20. we should not forget our key aims in relation to the creation of jobs, promoting growth and competitiveness in the eu.
in writing. – the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ included in this budgetary resolution i voted to cut eu subsidies for bullfighting in spain. many of my constituents in wales had contacted me about this issue and i believe it was the right thing to do for the sake of animal rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. breaking the mff ceilings is not a fiscally responsible proposition.
in writing. ‒ the ecr group has consistently argued for fiscal discipline and a reduced eu budget, one in which the same budgetary rigour applied to national spending is applied to eu spending. true, the migration and refugee crisis present significant challenges that should not be ignored, however we should not forget our key aims in relation to the creation of jobs, promoting growth and competitiveness in the eu. each one of these is crucial for the stability and future success of the union and therefore should not be compromised by inflation-busting eu budget increases. i subsequently support the alternative budget motion presented by the ecr group which outlines a series of ideas for a less burdensome yet more targeted eu budget. it is for these reasons that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. – the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments; this is due to the opposition relating to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument plus social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the on-going refugee and migration crisis relating to the mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is directed to the asylum migration and integration fund; this includes global europe security & citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting objectives of the citizens of europe. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but promote ‘more europe’ and meet the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a number of measures which would have seen the overall eu budget increase and against proposed rises for agricultural subsidies, including bullfighting subsidies, and administration. i voted instead to focus the eu budget more heavily upon investment for growth and jobs and voted for regional funding that goes directly to communities that are best able to determine how to deliver for people locally. i want to see a real budget reform in the eu, with areas that do not bring any real benefits to our constituents cut.
in writing. ‒ more of the eu budget needs to be spent on creating growth and more flexibility is needed to reprioritise the budget and direct it towards priority areas like the current humanitarian crisis and greater investment for growth. over the last year we have seen a major humanitarian crisis unfold on our doorstep and the mff, as it is structured right now, is not suitably flexible enough to reprioritise the budget. we have also all acknowledged that greater investment is needed with president junker’s investment plan – but the money for this came from budget lines already targeted at growing the economy and creating jobs. the money for this should have come from less productive areas of the eu budget
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted against an increase in the eu budget today, which goes beyond the multiannual financial framework (mff), the eu’s seven-year framework regulating its annual budget. labour meps have voted to re-prioritise the budget towards spending on growth, jobs and innovation – in particular the youth employment initiative, which should be an eu priority. they have also backed increased funding for refugees to help countries cope with the current humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments: this is due to opposition to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes, such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument and social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this, there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the ongoing refugee and migration crisis as a result of mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is being directed to the asylum migration and integration fund and this includes global europe security and citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting the objectives of europe’s citizens. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but rather promote ‘more europe’ and serve the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ the budget now looks to be restored to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 146.5 billion for payments: this is due to opposition to the proposed cuts. there is major support for all eu programmes, such as strengthening the european neighbourhood instrument and social and territorial cohesion. in addition to this, there is added pressure to increase the budget to deal with the ongoing refugee and migration crisis as a result of mismanagement of the disaster in the mediterranean. a further eur 1.6 billion is being directed to the asylum migration and integration fund and this includes global europe security and citizenship. we cannot support programmes that have already been badly managed and expect the taxpayer to fund initiatives that are not valid or reliable in relation to meeting the objectives of europe’s citizens. these eu programmes do not serve the people of europe but rather promote ‘more europe’ and serve the political agenda of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this budget report due to the fact there is vast support for eu programmes and political aims and objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report proposed that eur 1.3 billion be allocated to competitiveness for growth and jobs, eur 467 million to economic, social and territorial cohesion and eur 931 million to security and citizenship, breaking the multiannual financial framework (mff) commitment ceilings. i believe that, in the current economic climate, breaking the mff budget is not fiscally responsible.
in writing. ‒ since the 2008 financial crisis, member state governments have been forced to impose austerity budgets in order to balance their books and mend their economies. the uk has been foremost among those, and the government has had to make some very difficult decisions in the past several years. i am pleased to note that the uk is now benefiting from those measures – it remains the fastest growing g7 economy – but austerity packages have been painful for those having to readjust, including many of my own constituents in london. the council recognises this context and understands that it is unacceptable for member states to cut their budgets at home, only to increase the budget of the eu. sadly, the motion before the plenary today suggests, however, that a majority in the european parliament has yet to comprehend this. calling for increases of eur 4.1 billion and committing to a further eur 4.3 billion in payment appropriations is unacceptable, and for this reason i voted against the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against parliament’s negotiating position going into the budget negotiations because the current budgetary framework is unsuitable in a world where the eu needs to be able to shift funds rapidly to meet crises, such as the one in the mediterranean at the moment. furthermore, i feel that expanding the multiannual financial framework is not the way forward at this time, as citizens are looking to the eu to be a careful guardian of its resources. it was also wrong for the money for juncker’s investment plan to come from funds already targeted at increasing productivity and growth: it was a self-defeating method of trying to improve growth – giving with one hand while taking with the other.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contained a number of important, progressive provisions. the report emerged from the luxleaks scandal. the aim is to ensure the mandatory automatic exchange of information between tax administrations regarding advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements and to strengthen existing eu legislation. the gue/ngl rapporteur managed to further strengthen the commission proposal in a number of key areas including strengthening reporting requirements, i.e. the immediate exchange of information. my group tabled an alternative compromise stating that all rulings should be publicly available and not only stored somewhere in a central commission database in an aggregated form. the greens and efdd supported the gue/ngl group on this issue but unfortunately it was rejected in committee. nevertheless, given that the report was still an improvement compared to the commission proposal, and especially compared to the council position which was adopted even before the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ it should come as no surprise to anyone to learn that i do not believe british courts should be subservient to european courts.
in writing. ‒ the resolution as a whole and various amendments call for the number of european court of justice judges to be increased from 28 to 40 or 56, to which we are opposed in principle.
in writing. ‒ the resolution as a whole and various amendments call for the number of european court of justice judges to be increased from 28 to 40 or 56, to which we are opposed in principle.
in writing. ‒ the resolution as a whole and various amendments call for the number of european court of justice judges to be increased from 28 to 40 or 56, to which we are opposed in principle.
in writing. ‒ justice delayed is often justice denied. the court of justice must become a more efficient and speedy organisation.
in writing. ‒ the resolution as a whole and various amendments call for the number of european court of justice judges to be increased from 28 to 40 or 56, to which we are opposed in principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i do not wish to see more ecj judges or more money spent on the ecj.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on an increase in the number of judges in the general court. whilst i recognise the benefits of an increase in judicial staff, an increase in the number of judges means an increase in costs. i do not believe that such action can be objectively justified in the current economic climate.
in writing. ‒ the legislative resolution on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) will give a green light to the council position at first reading, without making any changes. some recommendations from the gfcm have been taken over in part by the council. they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals. the restrictions remain in place on paper, but the council has demanded that member states themselves can grant derogations to their fishermen. remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen. while i support the aforementioned proposals, approval of the council position had already been given by the committee on fisheries, and consequently the plenary did not vote on this matter.
in writing. ‒ approval of this took place without a vote, but for the usual reasons i would not have supported this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 is to be amended to incorporate conservation and control measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. measures include provisions for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, as well as the extension of some technical measures to the black sea and management measures for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my colleagues in the s&d group, voted in favour of this report. although the uk is not directly affected by this proposal the agreement contains a number of good conservation measures for the mediterranean particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches, as well as the extension of some technical measures to the black sea and management measures for fisheries exploiting stocks in the adriatic sea, thus reducing overfishing.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement, as it contains a number of preferable conservation measures for the mediterranean, particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches, and thus reducing overfishing.
in writing. ‒ as council’s first reading position is in conformity with the agreement reached in the trilogues, i voted to accept it without further amendments.
in writing. ‒ although the uk is not directly affected by this proposal, the agreement contains a number of preferable conservation measures for the mediterranean – particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches, thus reducing overfishing.
in writing. ‒ there was no vote on this recommendation, which shows the contempt this political project has for democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation because, although the uk is not directly affected by this legislative proposal, the agreement introduces several measures aimed at reducing unintended catches and overfishing in the mediterranean, and such issues do not have national boundaries and have knock—on effects all over the world. this represents a great move towards a sustainable fisheries policy in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. although the uk is not directly affected by this proposal, the agreement contains a number of preferable conservation measures for the mediterranean – particularly aimed at reducing unintended catches, and thus reducing overfishing.
in writing. ‒ my vote here reflected the uncertainty of the situation surrounding the commission proposal and to what extent they might be prepared to change it in an amended version. the proposal would make matters better than they are at the moment, but subject to tough criteria which would be very difficult to meet. unusually, it recognises that some matters should be for member states to determine. do i, then, vote the proposal down in the hope that the commission will come up with a better one? or do i support is because it is less bad than the current situation? overall, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. – today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. – today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject the commission’s proposal on gmos because it would have facilitated eu gmo authorisations by allowing member states to opt out without legal certainty for doing so. it also failed to address the flawed risk assessment process, which is at the heart of the problem. the commission must now come forward with a real reform that addresses these problems, as president juncker committed to doing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, given that the commission proposal on the use of genetically modified food and feed raises serious questions with regard to the integrity of the single market and therefore has to be rejected. i grasp this opportunity to call on the commission to live up to its commitment with regard to a comprehensive revision of the authorisation framework for gmos in the eu and to put forward a new legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ firstly, the commission proposal disingenuously ignores the reality that the eu is reliant on imports of gm feed to sustain its livestock sector. the proposal could lead to farmers in some countries being denied access to affordable feed, which could in turn threaten their viability. secondly, the proposal undermines the fundamental principle of free movement of goods. with different rules across different member states, how can we speak of a single market? the proposal fails to give any indications or reassurances of how opt-outs would be individually assessed and ultimately sanctioned if found to be contrary to free movement rules. thirdly, by allowing different national approaches, the proposal risks giving the impression that gmos deemed safe by efsa are in fact dangerous. this undermines science-based policymaking and exposes european citizens to scaremongering and irresponsible risk communication. for these reasons, i voted to reject the commission proposal. i did not support calls from colleagues for the commission to draft a new proposal, or to refrain from authorising new gmo applications until a new proposal is adopted. rather, i would prefer to see better implementation of the current rules which allow for authorisations on the basis of science-based, case-by-case assessment.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my fellow labour meps, voted in favour of this report. the current proposal from the commission raises serious questions with regards to the integrity of the single market. for this reason the eplp supports this motion to reject the commission proposal. we also argue for the commission to live up to a promise made by president juncker to comprehensively revise the authorisation framework for the gmos in the eu and to put forward a new legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. – today my colleagues and i voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal. by stating that member states must provide ‘compelling reasons’ to justify their opt-out while respecting the internal market and wto trade rules, the proposal fails to ensure the necessary legal certainty and adequate tools for member states that wish to lawfully restrict or prohibit the use of gm food and feed on their territory. likewise, the commission has, to the detriment of legal certainty, not provided any definition of the term ‘use’ in its proposal.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted in favour of the proposal for a revision of the current regulation on the authorisation system for gm food and feed. we believe that each member state should have the power to opt out and to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on its own territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, because i am against the creation of new eu legislation and new eu regulatory frameworks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the parliament’s motion to reject the commission proposal because the current proposal raises serious questions about the integrity of the single market. i would also add that the commission should live up to the promise made by its president jean-claude juncker to comprehensively revise the authorisation framework for gmos at eu level and to put forward a new legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ this is highly complex, highly technical and very difficult to understand the impact. the definition of ‘novel foods’ is problematic. i therefore followed the advice of colleagues in voting, who have more expertise on this matter than i do, and voted against the resolution. i am advised that this will create a great financial burden for applicants and could challenge foods which are already legally on the market. member states could even be deprived of the ability to make an initial safety assessment.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. – ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. – ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on this report, as it fails to ensure sufficiently strong provisions for protection of public health and consumer interest. playing down the importance of the precautionary principle, especially with regards to the application of new technologies used in food production, is not an option. furthermore, it is a matter of concern that the draft regulation opens the door for food derived from cloned animals or their offspring, despite the strong opposition from parliament evident in the vote during the september plenary. the current wording, moreover, allows the commission to update the list of novel foods by means of implementing acts, which precludes scrutiny by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my fellow labour meps, voted in favour of three s&d amendments to this report but abstained on the motion as a whole. whilst the report is not so bad as to warrant voting against, the ulster unionist rapporteur failed to ensure that the final text of the draft regulation includes sufficiently strong provisions for protection of public health and consumer interest. as a labour mep i do not agree with playing down the importance of the precautionary principle, especially with regards to the application of new technologies used in food production. furthermore, the draft regulation opens the door for food derived from cloned animals or their offspring, despite strong opposition from the parliament in the september plenary. finally, the current wording allows the commission to update the list of novel foods by means of implementing acts which excludes parliament’s scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. – ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on this report. the rapporteur failed to ensure that the final text of the draft regulation includes sufficiently strong provisions for protection of public health and consumer interest. i do not agree with playing down the importance of the precautionary principle, especially with regard to the application of new technologies used in food production. furthermore, the draft regulation opens the door for food derived from cloned animals or their offspring, despite the strong opposition from parliament evident in its vote at the september plenary.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation opens the door for food derived from cloned animals or their offspring, despite strong opposition from the parliament as voted in september plenary. finally, the current wording allows the commission to update the list of novel foods by means of implementing acts which excludes parliament’s scrutiny. at the same time, the rapporteur failed to ensure that the final text of the draft regulation includes sufficiently strong provisions for protection of public health and consumer interest. the eplp cannot agree with playing down the importance of the precautionary principle, especially with regards to the application of new technologies used in food production.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the commission legislative proposal for a regulation on novel foods. the new proposal, with the removal of the former novel food categories, would put at risk foods already legally on the market which could be challenged under the new regulation. we are concerned that this would cause legal uncertainty for operators, and if products already on sale were to be withdrawn for further assessment this would compromise consumer confidence. we also oppose the new authorisation system proposal that would introduce a centralised authorisation process.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote of this report because the ecr rapporteur failed to ensure that the final text of the draft regulation includes sufficiently strong provisions for the protection of public health and consumer interest. the eplp cannot agree with playing down the importance of the precautionary principle. the wording, as it stands, would allow the commission to update the list of novel foods by means of implementing acts, excluding the scrutiny of parliament. however, i would argue that the result of the trilogues weren't so bad as to make a vote against make sense, but the abstention will send a strong message to the uk food and drink industry, which is a leader in terms of technological innovation in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report because i do not believe that the final text of the draft regulation includes sufficiently strong provisions for the protection of public health and consumer interest. furthermore, the draft regulation opens the door for food derived from cloned animals and their offspring, despite the strong opposition from parliament expressed in the september plenary. that said, i do not believe that the outcome of the trilogues is sufficiently serious to justify voting against the report. voting against would send a negative signal to the uk food and drink industry, which is a european forerunner in technological innovation.
in writing. ‒ the implementation costs of this resolution are estimated to be in the order of eur 3 billion per year. i oppose the inclusion of methane in this directive, although i note that various deletion amendments were passed.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ air pollution causes 50 000 premature deaths across the uk and 700 000 across the eu in total every year. its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300 billion and eur 900 billion on an annual basis. that is why i voted to set ambitious measures to cut toxic emissions that contribute to air pollution. proper results can only be achieved if the agriculture sector plays its part, just as the car industry, following the emissions test scandal. thousands of deaths are attributable to ammonia from farms, and the setting of limits on agricultural emissions is both necessary and fair.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of improved air quality standards across the eu. the new directive on national emissions reduction commitments will reduce harmful emissions and lessen the health and environmental impact on our population. it is estimated that around 400 000 people a year die prematurely across the eu from air pollution. this is a crucial issue and action must be taken, based on robust scientific evidence, to improve life expectancy and reduce associated costs to society. billions of pounds per year are being lost, and the public is now acutely aware of the issue. policymakers have been concentrating on climate change to the detriment of air quality for the past decade, and it is clear there is a need for more cohesive and streamlined policymaking, with binding targets for 2025, improved reporting, and provisions on driving emissions and on access to funding to help people adapt to the new measures. i see today’s vote as an important step on the path to better air quality.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ i was very proud to support these measures, along with my labour party and socialist and democrat group colleagues. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 deaths per year and its estimated cost to the economy is hundreds of billions of euros. in my own region, london, the number of premature deaths is estimated to be around 10 000 people per year. this of course affects vulnerable people the most: pregnant women, children, the elderly and those on the lowest incomes. this is why we urgently need measures to address dangerous pollutants across all sectors.
in writing. ‒ thousands continue to die in my east of england constituency from respiratory diseases such as asthma, copd and lung cancer, in the last year alone: more than 200 in cambridgeshire, 300 in suffolk, 400 in norfolk, 500 in hertfordshire, and 700 in essex. yet the british conservative rapporteur voted against her own report at committee due to successful amendments which labour meps submitted to raise the level of ambition in terms of the targets with which eu member states have to comply. labour backs and the conservatives oppose: binding eu emission targets for 2025, specific measures to protect vulnerable people, enhanced monitoring by the european commission, and access to justice if governments fail to deliver. this would save an additional 140 000 life years each year across europe. british conservatives should explain why these lives are not worth saving. more than a third of the uk’s air pollution is blown over the channel. it is yet another example where conservatives are doing the wrong thing in europe and would be doing the wrong thing if they took us out of europe.
in writing. – today my fellow meps and i voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed. poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its annual economic cost to health is estimated at eur 300-900 billion. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health. in addition, vulnerable socio-demographic groups, such as pregnant women, children and the elderly, and those from low-income groups are particularly affected.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the directive used to tackle cross-border pollution. as agreed with member states, national governments commit to ceilings for the emission of certain pollutants. i supported the raising of these ceilings to more appropriate levels and the call for binding targets for 2025. committing to binding targets is the only way we will effectively reduce pollution, and this is crucially important, as we see that 90% of people living in cities in europe are now exposed to levels of pollutants classified as damaging to human health.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 premature deaths each year and its economic cost for health is estimated at between eur 300bn-900bn every year. around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health. in addition, vulnerable socio-demographic groups such as pregnant women, children, the elderly, as well as those from low income groups, are particularly affected. measures to address dangerous pollutants covering all sectors are urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not wish to see eu regulation in this field. however, i recognise the importance of improving air quality and reducing pollutants in the air. i wish for this type of legislation to be made in our own national parliament, not the eu.
in writing. ‒ as other meps have highlighted, poor air quality is responsible for a shockingly high number of premature deaths each year, and its economic cost for health is also worryingly pronounced. vulnerable socio-economic groups are particularly at risk from poor air quality, in particular the elderly, low-income groups, children and pregnant women. measures are needed desperately to address these issues, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ amending directive 2003/35/ec could be an important step towards reducing national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. there were, however, some issues with the aspects of the proposed approach that we in the s&d group attempted to address. however, that should not detract from the fact that, while overall the progress in tackling air pollution has been good, there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that air quality in europe improves. this is crucial, as our levels of air pollution are central to our long-term ecological wellbeing, and low levels of air pollution are also vital to our day-to-day health. we would not tolerate contamination of our water: it makes no more sense to tolerate the contamination of our air.
in writing. ‒ i abstained overall as it proposes replacing a failing system with a system which still does not have sufficient democratic input.
in writing. ‒ the resolution as a whole contains numerous calls for legislation and expenditure by the eu and makes a series of bogus claims that the european citizens’ initiative is a significant and effective means of participation by the citizens of member states in democracy and the legislative processes of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the resolution as a whole contains numerous calls for legislation and expenditure by the eu and makes a series of bogus claims that the european citizens’ initiative is a significant and effective means of participation by the citizens of member states in democracy and the legislative processes of the eu.
in writing. – the resolution as a whole contains numerous calls for legislation and expenditure by the eu and makes a series of bogus claims that the european citizens’ initiative is a significant and effective means of participation by the citizens of member states in democracy and the legislative processes of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this initiative as i have concerns that this is a duplication of resources. i believe that the individual eu offices in member states are able to function in the same manner as the proposed ‘citizens’ initiative offices’ whilst welcoming citizens’ participation in the democratic process, i am concerned that this will only extend the eu budget further.
in writing. ‒ it is vital that we foster involvement of european citizens in european decision—making to the largest extent possible. therefore it is important that the implementation of the european citizens’ initiative is improved and associated logistical and practical problems are addressed. we need to ensure that the eci is a user-friendly tool that is easily accessible to all citizens who want to increase their engagement with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i, alongside my colleagues in the s&d group, voted in favour of this report. the report seeks to address the problems of the poor implementation of the european citizens’ initiative and the logistical and practical problems associated. the eci could be a great tool to get citizens more involved in the democratic process, yet it has fallen short of this promise so far. with only three ecis reaching the target for consideration by the commission, it is clear that the eci needs to be more user-friendly and that many of the obstacles need to be eliminated before it can become a useful instrument.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it seeks to address the poor implementation of the european citizens’ initiative (eci) and the associated logistical and practical problems. the eci could be a great tool to get citizens more involved in the democratic process, yet it has hitherto fallen short of its promise. with only three citizens’ initiatives reaching the target for consideration by the commission, it is clear that the eci needs to be more user-friendly and many obstacles need to be eliminated before it can become a useful instrument.
in writing. ‒ this report makes recommendations on the european citizens’ initiative (eci). the eci could be an important tool in civic engagement but it has so far fallen short, with very few initiatives being accepted. it is clear that the commission needs to look again at the rules in order to make them more user-friendly and accessible.
in writing. ‒ the resolution as a whole contains numerous calls for legislation and expenditure by the eu and makes a series of bogus claims that the european citizens’ initiative is a significant and effective means of participation by the citizens of member states in democracy and the legislative processes of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is essentially creating an economic blueprint for the area in a region that does contain eu member states. this report also calls for quicker accession to the union for non-eu member states.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to address the problems of the poor implementation of the european citizens’ initiative and the logistical and practical problems associated. the eci could be a great tool to get citizens more involved in the democratic process, yet it has hitherto fallen short of this promise. with only three eci reaching the target for consideration by the commission, it is clear that the eci needs to be more user-friendly and many of the obstacles need to be eliminated before it can become a useful instrument. in particular, i voted in favour of amendments 4 and 5 because they ensure that successful ecis will get a real chance of having legal action made about them, whilst having satisfactory safeguards to protect european citizens from abuse of the democratic instrument.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to address the poor implementation of the european citizens’ initiative (eci) and the associated logistical and practical problems. the eci could be a great tool to get citizens more involved in the democratic process, yet it has hitherto fallen short of its promise. with only three citizens’ initiatives reaching the target for consideration by the commission, it is clear that the eci needs to be more user-friendly and many obstacles need to be eliminated before it can become a useful instrument.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of this report, which addresses important problems that have arisen with the european citizens’ initiative (eci). the report seeks to address the poor implementation of the citizens’ initiative and the associated logistical and practical problems. the eci could be a great tool to get citizens more involved in the democratic process, yet it has hitherto fallen short of its promise. with only three citizens’ initiatives reaching the target for consideration by the commission, it is clear that the eci needs to be more user-friendly and that many obstacles need to be eliminated before it can become a useful instrument.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the cult committee, citizenship is a central part of my portfolio. the european citizens’ initiative has the potential to strengthen european democracy, empower citizens to participate, and make the eu more responsive to their needs and demands. a european union of vibrant grassroots citizen engagement is what we would like to see. i voted for this report in order to address the problems of the poor implementation of the european citizens’ initiative and the logistical and practical problems associated. the eci has hitherto fallen short of its promise. with only three initiatives reaching the target for consideration by the commission, it is clear that the eci needs to be more user-friendly and that many of the obstacles need to be eliminated before it can become a useful instrument.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. in doing so, it describes the special characteristics of the adriatic-ionian macro-region and the difficulties and opportunities that it faces, and calls for specific action to be taken. however, the strategy put forward is based on the ‘three nos’ principle – no new legislation, no new institutions, no new funding. the strategy can therefore use only the already existing eu financial resources and tools, and funding in this report is placed in the context of the europe 2020 strategy with the strict conditions that entails. there are a number of other concerns with the report, such as support for contentious major projects, and a call to non-eu states to accelerate the implementation of sectoral acquis, such as the water framework directive, as a condition of accession to the eu. therefore, while there are positive aspects to the report, i abstained on this motion.
in writing. ‒ this is, in essence, the eu creating an economic blueprint for an area which does not contain any eu member states. furthermore, it proposes quicker accession for current non-eu countries. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. – ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. – ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic-ionian region faces a set of common challenges which need to be addressed. this includes difficult political and economic circumstances due to past historical events and socio-economic disparities between different countries and regions. ecosystems are threatened due to increased human exploitation of marine and coastal ecosystems. furthermore, administrative and institutional capacities at national regional and local level must be reinforced. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which provides the platform for common actions and facilitates an exchange of information, best practice and experience. importantly, it allows participating countries to learn from each other and to focus on a few key priorities that will bring real results and benefits to the everyday lives of the macro-regions’ citizens.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my fellow labour meps, voted in favour of this report. even though this report does not have an effect on the uk and macro-regional approach. the report is not about creating new institutions or new legislation; it provides the platform for common actions and facilitates, an exchange of information, best practice and experience. importantly, it allows participating countries to learn from each other and to focus on a few key priorities that will bring real results and benefits to the everyday lives of the macro-regions’ citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. – ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore my fellow meps and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, as the strategy will allow participating countries to learn from each other and to focus on a few key priorities that will bring real results and benefits to the everyday lives of the macro-region’s citizens.
in writing. ‒ eu macro-regional strategies, based on deeper political and economic cooperation between a specific group of eu member states and third countries, can provide real added value. british conservatives felt able to support the jakovčić report’s positive view of the eu’s third macro-regional strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) today, as a case in point. it provides an overall framework for greater intergovernmental policy coordination and a more effective business environment for companies and investors, and addresses gaps and practical difficulties that currently affect the single market. the eusair will be implemented using the region’s existing eu and national funding and it therefore fits our guiding principles of no new eu funds, no additional eu-level structures and no new eu legislation. where isolated paragraphs did give cause for concern, our members made their objections clear through split, roll-called votes: notably on paragraph 23, relating to an integrated european approach to migration and a shift in national asylum policies; paragraph 68, in relation to alarmist language on onshore and offshore oil and gas exploration; and paragraph 84, which contained a proposal to establish a new regional centre for disaster preparedness, the added value of which was not clearly defined.
in writing. ‒ through this report parliament has responded to recent updates on the implementation of the adriatic and ionian region strategy. although not directly affecting the uk, the report draws conclusions about best practice in regional development. i supported the report as the exchange of information at eu level is beneficial to all areas of regional development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which provides the platform for common actions and facilitates an exchange of information, best practice and experience. importantly, it allows participating countries to learn from each other and to focus on a few key priorities that will bring real results and benefits to the everyday lives of the macro-regions’ citizens.
in writing. ‒ ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip has always championed national democracy and state cooperation, but we have always argued against eu overarching policies on any region, especially a region that includes non-eu members. in order to have an effective economic strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, member states should decide the best action for themselves through intergovernmental cooperation. therefore we voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic-ionian region faces a set of common challenges, starting with difficult political and economic circumstances due to past historical events. there is a great deficiency in the infrastructure of this region – including inter alia inadequate interconnection of electricity grids. although there is some work to be done by the plenary in relation to repetitions and omissions, i am generally in favour in this report and i voted accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report concerning the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region and the accompanying action plan. i believe that the strategy allows participating countries to learn from each other and to focus on a few key priorities which will bring real results and benefits to the lives of the macro-region’s citizens.
in writing. ‒ this is the first european parliament report on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the cohesion policy dimension of the strategy. it examines the progress already achieved, the scope of the review and the challenges to be addressed from a cohesion policy perspective. the report makes some criticism of the results of the europe 2020 strategy to date and as well as several positive references. however, cohesion policy is presented as a policy at the service of europe 2020 and it connects cohesion policy with the eu economic governance framework and its implementation mechanism, the ‘european semester’. moreover, the report links the allocation and effectiveness of structural and investment to ‘sound economic governance’ – so-called ‘macro-economic conditionalities’ – by the member states, and therefore to austerity politics. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy in the european union has consistently failed and should not be further supported. member states should be the ones to subsidise their own regions, where necessary.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. – cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. – cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which includes important measures to boost quality jobs and growth, including in the uk. the future eu budget provides a significant contribution to job creation through the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund. at least eur 70 billion will be available under the esf for this, complementing national action in this field. the new cosme programme will furthermore provide eur 2.3 billion in support to smes to foster their competitiveness and boost growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ along with my s&d colleagues, i voted in favour of this report. this report will have an impact on the uk and people looking for work in the north west, and britain as a whole. it will allow jobseekers support from the future eu budget, which provides a significant contribution to job creation through the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund. at least eur 70 billion (i.e. about 10 billion per year) will be available under the esf for this, complementing national action in this field.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. – cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i have backed this report as it is essential for investment growth and job creation throughout the eu. to help eu citizens, at least eur 70 billion will go towards job creation, and to help small to medium-sized enterprises eur 2.3 billion will be allocated to them.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the eu strategy for reducing disparities between regions and member states and supporting economic and social development in poorer regions of the eu. this report by parliament is analysing implementation over the last few years. i particularly welcome the focus on how we can best use the european social fund and the european regional development fund to match national funding for investment to regenerate areas of europe. the focus on smes is also important as they provide 2 out of 3 private sector jobs. i support the new funding schemes at eu level to support smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as this would have an impact on the uk and british people looking for a job. they could count on support from the future eu budget, which provides a significant contribution to job creation through the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund. at least eur 70 billion (i.e. about 10 billion per year) will be available under the esf for this, complementing national action in this field. also as small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of europe’s economy, accounting for around 99% of all european businesses and providing two out of three private sector jobs. thanks to the new cosme programme, they can expect eur 2.3 billion in support to foster their competitiveness and boost growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been ineffective in several member states due to the draconian financial burden placed on member states by the ecb and the imf. due to the report neglecting to mention that this had a larger impact on member states’ growth than cohesion policy itself we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this policy as cohesion policy in the eu has consistently failed; i am also against cohesion policy of any sort from the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the reformed cohesion policy will help to invest in europe’s regions, cities and the real economy. i recognise that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of europe’s, and britain’s, economy, providing around two out of three private sector jobs. thanks to the new cosme programme, they can expect eur 2.3 million in support to foster their competitiveness and boost growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the common provision regulations is a destructive mechanism that further entrenches austerity by linking cohesion funding to ‘sound economic governance’ – also known as ‘macro-economic conditionalities’. it allows funding programmes at a local or regional level to be suspended or ‘reprogrammed’ because of factors outside the control of those affected, such as national budget deficits. this would cause significant harm, particularly to vulnerable regions and member states still suffering from the economic and social crisis. while the report is mildly critical and recommends some safeguards, it ultimately accepts the premise of ‘sound economic governance’ in the context of cohesion funding. for this reason, my colleague martina anderson tabled an alternative resolution on behalf of the gue/ngl group calling for the mechanism not to be used and for its review, which unfortunately did not succeed. i also voted for a specific amendment, tabled by more than 76 meps, calling for the decoupling of this important funding from the calculation of national deficits. this amendment was also unsuccessful. as the report therefore endorses - if critically - a mechanism that will impose austerity policies on local and regional communities, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with my principles as a ukip mep to oppose this resolution on the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. – article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. – article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ european structural and investment funds are a crucial tool for strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu and for reducing disparities between regions, promoting a balanced and harmonious socio-economic development. i voted in favour of this report given the close linkage between the esi funds and the economic governance of the eu is needed to ensure that the effectiveness of eu expenditure is underpinned by sound economic policies. i welcome the fact that eu support can, if necessary, be redirected to address new emerging economic and social challenges.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my colleagues in the eplp, voted in favour of this report. the close link between the esi funds and the economic governance of the eu ensures that the effectiveness of eu expenditure is underpinned by sound economic policies. eu support can, if necessary, be redirected to address new emerging economic and social challenges.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ on behalf of the local enterprise partnerships, businesses and local authorities in my east of england constituency, i want to record my concern about any provisions for suspension of european structural and investment funding. i have been proud to work to help attract one third of a billion to my own region in the last six years, which has played a crucial role at a time of economic crisis. already, britain’s conservative government has been last in line to get agreement for its operational plan to spend this eu funding in the next period. we must not allow regions to be punished, via the reprogramming or suspension of funding and consequent further deterioration for jobs and business, because of delays and obstructions which are the responsibility of government not of the region. the british government may be reluctant to claim and spend this money. on behalf of my region, we are not.
in writing. – article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as the close linkage between the esi funds and the economic governance of the eu ensures that the effectiveness of eu expenditure is underpinned by sound economic policies.
in writing. ‒ i support these guidelines for this european-level funding which is of crucial importance for regeneration across the eu including in scotland and the rest of the uk. the funds aim to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu by reducing inequalities between regions. learning from best practice with these funds is important, as is redirecting them when needed so the eu can respond to emerging economic and social challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report; the close linkage between the esi funds and the economic governance of the eu ensures that the effectiveness of eu expenditure is underpinned by sound economic policies. eu support can, if necessary, be redirected to address new emerging economic and social challenges.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr demonstrates the lack of democracy in the eu. the fact that the commission can tell the council to withdraw funding from a member state without consulting the elected parliament highlights the democratic deficit. the reality with this report is that there will be no change; if parliament received more powers of ‘scrutiny’ from the commission they would only be allowed to give an opinion and not fully go against the judgment of the commission. therefore we were against this legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it would hand more power to the eu parliament, which i do not wish to see happen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the current programming period for the cohesion policy is closely linked with the goals of the eu 2020 strategy and economic governance mechanisms. the rapporteur, from my group, did a very good job on this report and i’m happy to see it pass in plenary. the implications of the esi funds are massive in my region, and will strengthen the need to see a devolved assembly in the west midlands.
in writing. ‒ european structural and investment funds are critical to my constituents in wales, to develop and improve our local economy in partnership with the eu. to get the best value for money for the european taxpayer, and to ensure that wales can move forward as rapidly as possible, it is critical that the esi is underpinned by a sound economic strategy. furthermore it is important that this support can be redirected to meet emerging economic and social challenges as they develop. this is very important to ensure that the european union continues to work towards addressing the economic disparities that exist between many of the european regions.
author.– mr president, i am not in my usual seat because i have had a small injury and am on crutches, so i am not even in the proper political part of the chamber. this is just to explain to everyone where i am sitting/standing. however let us get on to the very important issue of ‘smart borders’. on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), allow me to present the oral question which we have tabled to the council and to the commission. it is good to see again commissioner avramopoulous and, of course, our presidency, which we know has been working incredibly hard over the past few days. the smart borders package is one which we have debated on a number of occasions in the past, including in this chamber. the reason for this is very simple. the original proposal that the commission presented in 2013 had so many technical problems that in the committee we did not even proceed to the stage of preparing draft reports. since then, we have been in a discussion process with the other institutions and in a process of verifying what technical options we have. it is this process that we are continuing today. we have presented a series of questions to the council and commission and we are looking forward to their responses. from the commission we would like to receive an update regarding the new proposals. specifically, does the commissioner intend to present a single legislative proposal which would be complemented by a modification of the schengen borders code to take account of the systems at the border, or would it present two separate proposals which would also be complemented by a modification of the schengen borders code? also, when does it intend to present the announced revised proposals, and could the commission outline its main ideas for the revised proposals and its intended purpose? the following questions are also addressed to both the council and the commission. we are interested to know whether they consider an envisaged entry/exit system and registered traveller programme to be appropriate and adequate responses to the current and future situation at the eu’s external border, given the constant increase in the number of border crossings and, if so, why? do they consider the envisaged entry and exit system to be an appropriate instrument for reducing the number of so-called overstayers and, if so, why? what are the views of the council and commission as regards access for law enforcement purposes? what are their views as to the intended purposes and what are their thoughts on the systems as regards the architecture, biometric identifiers and data retention periods? and to what extent may the european court of justice’s ruling on data retention impact on the proposals as they stand? what are their views regarding upgrading the existing tools to achieve the intended objectives of the entry and exit system and the registered traveller programme, regarding the interoperability and compatibility of various it systems that already exist with regard to the smart borders package? finally, for the council specifically, what is the council’s view on the costs of the smart borders package, in particular those that are not fully covered by the internal security fund? this smart borders package, which will take us into the next presidency – where there is a lot of interest in this matter, and i have spoken briefly to the minister – is one which has many deep civil liberties implications, but as you have heard from my questions – and we have one of our rapporteurs here, ms fajon – has many technical aspects. we in the libe committee want to get these technical aspects discussed openly and transparently, but we are also concerned with the many civil liberties aspects, so i look forward to the debate today and i am very pleased that the members here present will give their best to ensure that the smart borders package begins to make sense to all of us today.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would be delighted if we could speed things up somewhat in the chamber, having been here until nearly midnight last night – not fun, and quite frankly a waste of everybody’s time, not to mention our taxpayers’ money. when this proposal was first launched there was a big question: where was the specific just cause for it? we heard earlier that it looks as though some attempts have been made to address that. do i have confidence? no i do not. what exactly does facilitating entry of frequent pre-vetted third-party nationals into the european union mean? absolute gobbledygook! it does not take account of anything to do with identity theft, criminal intent, cyber-attacks or, as has been mentioned, the mass migration that is now underway. three weeks ago we heard that schengen was effectively dead. i cannot remember whether it was ms merkel or mr hollande who said that, but if that is the case then the fundamental premise of this whole proposal is gone: it has evaporated, it has disappeared. border controls need to return to the ownership and responsibility of member states. this proposal is now outdated; it is not fit for purpose; and it is certainly not value for money.
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting the question. my question is simple. why must there be eu border control? the eu is not a country. why can border control not be done by sovereign, independent nation-states, who might be members of the eu but have their own borders to control. the eu is not a country, so i am really confused by the whole concept of why something that is not a country should look to control borders that do not exist.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank everybody very much for this fruitful exchange of views. this debate we had today confirms the vital importance, i would say, of the input of parliament into our joint efforts to create a smart borders system that meets its objectives and that offers genuine value for money. since we all know that in the years to come the flow of travellers will continue to grow, we need a better and smarter border management system. there is no doubt about it. if we do nothing, we will either have to face much longer queues at the borders, or we will have to employ more border guards in the near future. neither of these options seems acceptable or feasible. i notice that many members made reference to schengen. i avail myself of this opportunity to state and repeat: we will not allow isolated, one-sided actions taken under the state of fear to put into question the greatest achievement of europe during our times. this commission, as i had committed during the hearing one year ago, took the time to carefully evaluate the smart borders proposal, and we shall come back with a new proposal in order to modify proposals based on a new impact assessment. i do not, therefore, agree that we are acting under pressure or urgency. on the contrary, we took into account your considerations, which will be reflected in the modified proposal. the commission is looking forward to continuing its close work with parliament in this important file and really counts on its support and cooperation to find the right balance.
nicolas schmit, president of the council. mr president, i fully understand what the commissioner is saying. firstly, the present situation is quite exceptional and we should not draw the wrong conclusions from it. secondly, i think what the commissioner said about schengen is absolutely important. but we all know that schengen needs a system which works better at the external borders, hence the proposals that will be made. we need an efficient system, more efficient, also - and i say this - to combat phenomena such as terrorism and serious crime. and since the 21st century will be the century of mobility, people will move from one country to another, so we also need an effective system that not only allows mobility but also prevents or proposes measures to combat, for example, crime or other illegal mobility.
member of the commission.– mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, ms kinga gál, who has worked very hard to find common ground among the shadow rapporteurs and to expedite the adoption of the regulation. when it comes to the substance of the reform of cepol, we can all welcome the final outcome, as this would reinforce cepol’s ability to prepare police officers to cooperate effectively, to develop a common law enforcement culture and to become the centre of excellence of training of law enforcement officers in the european union. training is key in this respect. the european agenda on security underlines that this is an essential element to enhancing the security of our union. training is essential to allow authorities on the ground to utilise our law enforcement cooperation tools in an operational situation. the cepol regulation is an evolution rather than a revolution. the network-based character of cepol is maintained. the agency will continue to bring together the network of training institutes of the member states and liaise with a single national unit in each member state. cepol is now entrusted with the task of coordinating the implementation of the law enforcement training system. the overall objective of the scheme is to present a coordinated policy approach ensuring high-quality training for law enforcement officials. this new role widens the opportunities for cepol to support, develop, deliver and coordinate training for law enforcement officers of all ranks, and not just senior officers. the reform also provides for the professionalisation of cepol’s management. the members of the management board will be appointed taking into account their knowledge of training for law enforcement officers, and they will be assisted by a scientific committee for training to further ensure the quality and coherence of training programmes. cepol’s work will come in addition to the welcome initiative taken by the member states in the field of training for law enforcement personnel. i am also very encouraged by the strong role ensured for the european parliament in this cepol regulation. parliament will receive the agency’s annual planning documents, and is the budgetary authority for all eu bodies. in addition, the management board shall consult parliament on cepol’s multiannual work programme. the idea is to provide the opportunity for a strategic debate on the direction the agency should take. the parliament will also receive all activity reports and accounts and all evaluations commissioned. the director of cepol will additionally report to the parliament on the performance of his duties when invited to do so. that said, the commission has misgivings on two central aspects of this reform, and this comes before us today. these two aspects are the governance of the agency and respect for the european union’s budgetary principles, which are of course very important for the commission. on both these aspects, the outcome of the negotiation process is not in line with what the commission has proposed or with the trilaterally-agreed common approach on eu decentralised agencies. let me take this opportunity to recall the institutional commitment to use such revisions of the agency’s founding acts – as with cepol and europol – as opportunities to implement and to comply with the common approach. this common approach includes the reinforcement of the supervisory role of the management board, including by ensuring full participation by the commission, ensuring a transparent selection procedure for directors and the necessary adoption of programming document with a multiannual component, the possible setting up of an executive board to ensure more assured more efficiency and the obligation to better follow-up of evaluations and audits. the commission regrets the lack of political commitment to ensure respect for the common approach on eu decentralised agencies, in particular regarding the role and composition of the agency’s management structures. on these two points the commission wants to table a statement to make clear its position. i would ask you, therefore, to add the commission’s statement to the minutes of this meeting. so allow me now to proceed to the reading of the commission statement: ‘the commission takes note of the political agreement reached between theeuropean parliament and council. the commission regrets that this agreement is not fully aligned with the principles of the common approach on the eu decentralised agencies nor with the financial rules applicable to these agencies and considers that the agreed text on the governance of the agency and on its funding is without prejudice to any future legislative texts. the possibility of funding part of cepol’s tasks through ad hoc grants or delegation agreements contradicts the fundamental principle that the tasks of an agency, as described in its constituent act, are financed by the annual contribution from eu budget and not through ad hoc grants or delegation agreements. the commission underlines that the respect of this principle is essential to allow the budget authority to take an informed decision about the annual contribution foreseen for each agency in the annual budget. the commission refers to the framework financial regulation for agencies, which limits the possibility for agencies to receive funding through ad hoc grants or delegation agreements to exceptional cases, in line with the principle of transparency and sound financial management.’ thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, criminals do not respect national legal jurisdictions. cross-border criminality is a feature of the modern world of increased travel and new technology. the number of prosecutions of serious crimes that involve cross-border cooperation between law enforcement authorities must increase in future. and, as the commissioner has said, good cooperation between law enforcement authorities across europe is an essential tool in carrying out effective and expedient investigations, resulting in the capture and prosecution of criminals. the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) offers a valuable platform for the exchange of best practice and skill sharing for all law enforcement officers across the eu. when it comes to the training and running of national law enforcement authorities, account must always be taken of, and respect accorded to, national sovereignty, subsidiarity and the differing pressures and crime trends in member states, and i believe that in the area of police cooperation the eu should offer the hand of support rather than compulsion. i would like to thank my friend, the rapporteur, ms gál, for her hard work and i congratulate her on this report.
blue-card question.– i listened with interest about the greater cooperation that you suggest between the police forces in the different countries. how far would you take this? how far would this cooperation go before you decide: stop, enough, national sovereignty comes into this, and you have to control your own borders and your own country’s space? so just how far would you take this cooperation then you say: hold, enough, this is our countryʼs own business?
author.– madam president, again i am not in my usual seat for the reasons i mentioned earlier. the oral question which i present today to the commissioner – he is not yet in his place – but i am going to present the questions first and then explain this very sensitive and important topic to colleagues. the questions that we are going to present in the oral question are first of all: what is the council’s and commissionʼs general political assessment as to any electronic mass surveillance eu citizens are subject to? do the council and commission consider eu citizens to be sufficiently protected against unnecessary electronic mass surveillance? what measures have the council and commission undertaken since the adoption of the resolution of 12 march 2014 in order to protect fundamental rights in a digital age, and what further measures do the council and commission plan to take? i am very conscious – commissioner, i am sorry that you have just taken your seat, but i am sure you will catch up – that these are very broad questions, but what i want to say to colleagues present in the chamber is that one of the most surprising things about the inquiry of march 2014 into mass surveillance was the outcome of the plenary vote – an extraordinary 544 members in this plenary across the political spectrum voted for a very sensitive and far-reaching report. they did it because they were acting in a very mature way; they understood that what was happening was that we were not just dealing with one of the most important issues that all individual sovereign countries have to deal with – that is: the protection of their citizens, and therefore intelligence agencies have to do their work – but we were dealing with one of the biggest growth areas in the confidence, in the privacy of individual citizens, you and i. and we have seen in recent days massive data breaches of major telecom companies like talk talk. we have seen the judgment on safe harbour; and it is very prescient that such an important vote took place in march 2014 because human rights in a digital age were taken very seriously by this parliament for a reason, and that is that privacy is not a soft option; privacy is fundamental to consumer confidence; privacy is fundamental to human rights in the digital age. so the resolution that we present to members and to the commission and council is about what follow-up we have. in this follow-up resolution, if i take one example, the safe harbour judgment of the european court of justice, we have a situation where the european parliament warned incessantly that safe harbour was not safe, that the transfers of mass data from the european union which had higher standards of data protection compared to the united states, which had lower standards, would end up with this kind of situation and a negative situation. we warned of mass surveillance, not for security and purposes of protecting individuals, but simply mass surveillance, very expensive mass surveillance, which was uncontrolled, which has negative implications. since then the council of europe and individual member states, individual parliaments of member states, have gone into great detail with their inquiries. and i am very proud that this parliament went into great detail in the post-snowden era on digital rights and human rights in the digital era, because we were able to say, on the one hand, that this is vital to tackle terrorism, it is vital to tackle security threats, but that it is incredibly important to understand that we will not do this if there is no credibility in the way that mass surveillance is carried out. i think we set some good standards in march 2014. what we are now trying to do in this oral question is to see, with the four questions i have put to both council and commission, what follow up we actually have on all of these key points. for the european union, with the trilogues currently running on data regulation, and on the question of the data directive, but also on the agreements on pnr, on swift and so on, it is very important that we understand that the european union is itself invested in transferring data as a european union to other places; and for that reason we have the competence and we have the need to understand these issues and get these issues fixed. but most importantly it is about the privacy of the citizen, paramountly, and we need to represent the citizen, ensure they are confident in their privacy and ensure they have the confidence to go forward, and they feel they are represented. look around you and see whether that is necessary and then look at this resolution and see whether it is worthy of support. so i hand over to the commission and council to tell us what they are now doing on this resolution and the questions i have put.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, commissioner, our rights and our freedoms must always be the compass which guide society. these rights must always be defended with equal force to that which we use to defend our borders and our safety. robust data protection and digital privacy laws must be constantly updated for the modern world, and accountability and effective and meaningful oversight of the agencies and the institutions charged with keeping us safe must form part of the fabric of democratic norms. of course, independent and thorough investigation must take place where any potential wrongdoing is revealed. this is essential if citizens are to have confidence in the people entrusted with protecting us. however, i cannot support this resolution. i will never regard edward snowden or his actions as ‘heroic’. i cannot bestow the label of hero upon a person who has endangered the lives of so many citizens across the world and those individuals serving overseas who risk their lives, day in and day out, to protect ours. in my opinion the language in this resolution does little to offer a sensible approach but instead just seeks to escalate the rhetoric. i fail to see how producing a report from an investigation conducted in the political arena, with no access to official documents, with no powers to call relevant individuals to give evidence, and with no competence under eu law, can produce recommendations with even the smallest perceived amount of objectivity. i cannot in conscience ever support a resolution of this parliament that calls for the suspension of important anti-terror agreements with the united states given the security situation in europe at present. a resolution of this kind, in my view, is something that can never be credible, relevant or responsible in the legitimate quest to provide real oversight and protection of individual rights for the people of europe as a whole.
on behalf of the enf group.– madam president, i also would like to wish mr moraes a speedy recovery. it is clear that the privacy of our citizens and our fundamental rights should be adequately protected. institutions snooping on all of us without proper controls is something that has no place in a democratic society, but it is up to our national parliaments and national courts to strike the balance between upholding civil liberties of our citizens and ensuring our nationʼs security. let us not forget that it is exactly the eu commission’s safe harbour agreement with the usa that gave citizens a false sense of security and national supervisory authorities that had such a passive role. this is one of the main conclusions of the ecj ruling. while i hear the european parliament pointing out the dangers of mass surveillance of citizens by the us in member states, what actually worries me more is the euʼs ambitions to set up its own secret service agency – in fact, a spy agency. indeed, it was even mr juncker who has suggested earlier this year that he would like to establish an eu spying agency. the last thing we want is big brother spying on the eu member states and their citizens. the european parliament has no jurisdiction whatsoever to involve itself in any way in how the nation states are running their security agencies. it is up to the member states, not the eu, to uphold their own data protection laws and negotiate proper agreements with the countries. however, i do pose an alternative. i strongly suggest that the commissioners watch the new james bond film, spectre. perhaps mr juncker would consider applying for mʼs position and mr timmermans, with his many languages, might apply to replace daniel craig as 007. if so, they will be under the control of the british government and not the eu, which is as it should be.
madam president, when we are talking about electronic mass surveillance, we live in dangerous times and it is undoubtedly right that counter-terrorism and anti-organised crime agencies do need to be vigilant in the digital world as well as in the real world. having said that, i am a libertarian at heart and really do not like being spied on by government agencies of any government or any state. my mistrust of the state is magnified to a huge level when it comes to my mistrust of the eu superstate. so please excuse me if i do not place my trust in the eu to protect my personal freedom, as everything in this place is all aimed at, and targeted round, the power of the state over the individual. so when it comes to this kind of thing about mass surveillance and individual rights, i have to ask for leave not to support the eu to do anything. i think i would rather put my trust elsewhere.
madam president, i have heard a lot this afternoon about individual rights, democracy and democratic accountability, but when you look at the record of this place, this chamber, this union, they have ignored referendums, they have sought that democratic governments be toppled – and we need only look at the portuguese election where, as nigel farage said, if you had replaced in the brezhnev doctrine ‘socialist’ with ‘european union’, it’s the same thing. this place has no right to lecture anyone on any of those principles, because you lot put the interests of the european union first. you have the euro, which has created mass unemployment. you have the desire for ever closer union, which rejects democracy. you have created the borders crisis. you have no right whatsoever to lecture any of the governments or any of the peoples of this european union, because if you keep doing that, we will break free. britain will be free, and after that, many other nations in this union will be free.
madam president, i dare say my colleague would feel warmer had this place not passed such ridiculous energy legislation that puts bills up.
blue-card question.– thank you for your contribution. two quick questions: the first is, you talk about new economic instruments. how about the best economic instrument this parliament and this union can promote? ditch the euro. let currencies devalue, decouple, and actually start growth again. you also talked about democracy. i would like to know your views on the ‘coup d’état’ in portugal, where a democratically—elected parliament was overruled by a president who decreed that the european union and the euro zone were more important than the wishes of the portuguese people. what are your views on that?
blue-card question.– thank you for your comments. we have heard all the previous speakers waffle on about instruments here and economics there, and so on, but do you agree with me that they are blind and ignorant to the solution staring them in the face, in that the euro has to go? it does not matter what you all are talking about: you are blind to the fact that the euro is causing the misery that is angering your constituents. so would you agree with me that, before anyone else speaks, the first thing they say to solve the economic problems in this union is that the euro must go?
mr president, i wanted to start by just making the point that austerity is not a philosophy or a practice restricted to the eurozone. those living in the uk should well understand that it is a matter of political choice. i wanted to say that parliament has long stressed the need for the economic and social dimension of the semester to carry equal weight, and of course i agree totally with my colleague sven giegold on the environmental dimension there. we need to care about our natural capital as well. but the social dimension is about more than employment. we are risking coming back as if somehow employment is the be—all and end—all. it is important, of course, and we should recognise that labour market flexibility, for example, does not mean that all power passes to the employer. employers are expected to flexible as well as workers. we need to recognise that shifting work patterns must not mean that people lose their social rights, and that trickle-down, as mentioned by one or two other speakers, is a very poor form of social irrigation. we know that, if you really want things to grow, you water from the roots up and you look after the people first. when we are talking about the social impact assessment linked to the semester, i think it really is time that we saw it operating so that we are looking at the widest impact of the potential policies that are actually being pursued, and so that we are not actually destroying what we claim to be protecting.
mr president, the semester report is a very curious detective story. for the most part the evidence of the abominations that have been visited on the peoples of europe is expertly sifted by mr rosati. he notes, for instance, the destructive influence of an overvalued currency on exports, production, employment, wages and much else. at last i think the euro is being prosecuted as the villain of the piece. the report calls on the commission to explore innovative ways of lessening the need for a painful internal devaluation. hurray, i think, this must be code for letting the southern periphery leave the euro. the next paragraph notes that a currency union in a currency area that is far from optimal necessarily leaves some of its members trapped with a currency that is overvalued. yes, i now think, hercule poirot, i love you! but then comes the crushing baffling disappointment. mr rosati lets the villain of the piece off the hook. in fact he makes the villain chief of police. he says all eu member states should be engaged in each stage of completing economic and monetary union. to quote a famous british voice: ʻno, no, noʼ. the report notes a persistently high unemployment rate across most member states. this will indeed persist, notwithstanding some short-term cyclical improvements, so long as you all persist with the euro. case closed, your honour!
mr president, most people in this place talk about one of three things: themselves, their own amendments or how wonderful the eu is, or indeed all three at once. i am not going to do any of them. i am going to talk about someone else’s amendments. the greens – lovely people, a little confused, hearts in the right place, all that – but most of their policies are not on the same planet as the one they want to save. how, for example, is the eu meant to meet their amendment to ‘monitor progress towards decoupling economic development from the use of natural resources’? well, however, we can agree on the amendment which says ‘we deplore the eurogroup’s absence of democratic legitimacy and accountability when it assumes executive powers’. the eurogroup should not meet behind closed doors, nor keep the minutes private, but the kind-hearted greens are probably the only people in this place who would believe the eu is going to change this.
blue-card question.– i am very grateful, as i know the lady is not keen on blue cards. for once, she has made the points about the european level of governance and i suppose i made similar points earlier, but she should be looking at her own national government because her political party, with the french president’s party, has ruined the economy of france. it has chased all the wealth creators away – some of them have come to britain and to london, and we are grateful for that. surely the key to improving the french economy would be a much lower tax economic outlook than the one her disastrous socialist president has imposed.
madam president, the british government defines long-term unemployment as someone who is out of work for 12 months or more. however, i am sure that many families and individuals view this definition as far too lengthy. over the last six years, long-term unemployment in europe has swelled. around half of europe’s 25 million unemployed have been jobless for over a year. over 12% have not worked for more than four years. the eu writes legislation which pushes up the price of energy and sets renewable targets which do not provide a secure future for any sort of industry, let alone heavy industry. the british taxpayer will end up picking up the bill for the extra people who find themselves unemployed again. the north of england suffered under the conservatives during the 1980s and 1990s, and is doing so again. the ‘northern powerhouse’ promised by david cameron is a total myth, and it is a brussels powerhouse that we should worry about and have to deal with.
madam president, there are 50 000 long-term unemployed people in my constituency of the west midlands, and 50% of long-term unemployed people in the uk are from black, asian and minority ethnic backgrounds. i thought, well 50% – that is a lot. when i sat down to read the papers for this debate i thought i would turn to the section on the 50% – the black, asian and minority ethnic long-term unemployed – and see what the council and the commission and parliament have to say about them. i thought i would make a cup of tea as it was going to be a long section, since this is very important. but no. no section! actually no sentence; not a word about the black, asian and minority ethnic people that make up 50% of the long-term unemployed people in the united kingdom. i thought, well that is odd, as there are all the black, asian and minority ethnic people who work for the commission and the council – except, oh no, there are none! these are white institutions that do not care about black unemployment!
in writing.– i would like to grasp this opportunity to urge for action on the steel crisis taking place in the uk and my region of the west midlands that risks driving hundreds of thousands into unemployment. 1 700 jobs are in the balance in caparo, coming on top of around 6 000 jobs that were lost nationwide, including in tata steel. that is not to mention 100 000s of people working in the midlands supply chain. this has not developed overnight, yet the uk government failed to prevent this social bloodbath. eu funding is available to support the affected workers, but the tories failed to apply. still, there are other ways in which the eu can and should help: it should swiftly grant state aid approval so the industry can receive compensation for high energy prices – especially given the tories are hiding behind the commission rather than securing retrospective eu approval later. the eu should also take a firm stance against china dumping steel on our markets. 42 companies have shown interest in taking over caparo, but we can only prevent a similar tragedy from happening again if we address these structural problems. here, the eu has a key role to play where the government is failing to step up to the plate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i welcome the review of the 2020 strategy. the very fact that we are even having a debate ahead of it is an improvement on where it came from, where parliament had to fight to find a way into have any sort of sense of ownership with it – let alone wider civil society, social partners and others that were supposed to be engaged – so i hope that we manage a very good and broad consultation on this. i also very much welcome the linking with the new sustainable development goals (sdgs), because i think that gives us some new sets of dimensions, not least a more global one. the sdg on sustainable consumption and production, which links to the proposals coming up on the circular economy, will be important in terms of how this fits with sustainability within the european union and really develops the ideas on new skills for new jobs, issues around just transition, and indeed the investment that others have spoken of. however, i would say that i think that targets are important. one of the things that we have learned in this process is that, if there is not a target and if it is not measured, it is not visible. the anti-poverty target has been very important and should not be forgotten, even if we want to consider framing that now more in terms of reducing inequalities and looking at what we are doing there to improve our societies overall.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, here we are again in strasbourg, having travelled to this building that we occupy only 50 days a year, at a cost of millions to the taxpayer, discussing another strategy for growth and jobs – when it is eu legislation from this building that has cost my constituents in scunthorpe and rotherham their jobs. the obsessive green agenda has led to increased energy prices. even the outgoing boss at tata steel in scunthorpe has said those levies cost them 130 million a year. thanks to our eu membership the british government’s hand is well and truly shoved up its back. now we are even using swedish steel to make british military equipment: steel that defeated hitler is no longer good enough for our armed forces. i say we should ignore the commission and put our own people first. if brussels does not want us to have a steel industry, it is something we can talk about after the referendum in 2017. i imagine that conversation is going to be very brief, as polls keep showing us a win for ‘leave’.
mr president, ‘history will judge us by the difference we make in the everyday lives of children’, to quote nelson mandela and, let me add, ‘young people’. they are still paying the price of the economic and debt crises. the study already referred to yesterday underscores the point. in the eu, 26 million children and young people are threatened by poverty and social exclusion. this is a reality that we are painfully aware of in the uk, in the same way as elsewhere in europe. we have 750 000 young people out of a job and they are three times more likely to be unemployed than the rest of the population, the largest gap in more than 20 years. so let this review should be a wake-up call to get our priorities right. yes, we do have a youth guarantee, but more needs to be done. if the commission had a more ambitious reform of economic governance rules that gave employment and the social agenda a higher priority, at least one that put them on par with economic and fiscal governance, then we might get some progress. the same goes for the migration crisis, which has to be one of our eu 2020 goals, because only an ambitious humanistic approach can resolve this and make a difference.
mr president, 1 700 jobs in my constituency in the west midlands are seriously threatened by the collapse of caparo steel. are these naturally threatened, outdated jobs in a declining industry? no, there are actually lots and lots – dozens, we hear – of potential buyers for these businesses, because these are very competitive, often high-tech, good businesses. so why has caparo steel collapsed, we ask? well, not because the businesses are not competitive: it has collapsed because of price, because of dumping on the international market that the uk government and our institutions here are not doing anything about. let the commission have strength in this matter. let us not confuse competitiveness with price, and let us not compete on price, because we cannot. let us compete on the competitiveness that we should pride ourselves on.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my good colleague renato soru, the rapporteur, for an excellent report. he is responsible for ensuring that securities financing transactions will be more transparent in the future. the underlying reason for the securities financing transactions report is to make our banking system safer, increase transparency and improve supervision. these instruments play a significant role in the financial sector in that they ensure liquidity in the secondary debt market, contribute to an efficient settlement and allow for better employment of capital. this agreement not only strengthens the reporting obligation, it also improves the collection of data on the transactions, enabling better monitoring of risk concentrations and identifying counterparty exposures. i welcome this report on shedding light on the shadow banking sector, because in my opinion you cannot just regulate the banking sector alone and allow other means through which highly risky activities continue within our financial services sector, which is critical for the success of the capital markets union.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i am very pleased to discuss this topic as it is the main concern i hear from smes based in yorkshire and the humber. though the situation has improved, the success rate of small firms applying for bank loans in the uk is around 62%, while over 80% of european smes receive finance from banks. our smes need access to more diverse funding tools, as our over-reliance on bank loans really is the spanner in the works. achieving this requires sharing best practices, financial education and cultural change. lord hill’s cmu proposals are promising, and existing tax incentives stimulate investment in smes. however, they are not the only solution. we need to let our constituents know about all the options available to them. venture capital, business angels and looking at equity rather than bank debt should all be considered. there are also other sources of funding such as peer—to—peer lending and using ip to leverage finance. these are just some of the examples of financing options that our smes could tap into in order to unleash their potential, encourage innovation and boost job creation. going forward, we must hammer home this message to make sure the right tools are in place for our burgeoning small and medium—sized businesses.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the discussion this evening reminds me of the old adage, ‘give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime’. while we discuss access to finance for smes, we are in fact only delaying the discussion of the real everyday problems that smes in the eu face. for is not the lack of money from the eu that hampers smes, but the ridiculous amounts of red tape and burdensome regulations that come from this parliament. smes are the backbone of our economy: they represent over 99% of businesses and help provide millions of jobs and deliver crucial services to our citizens. to ensure that the long-term prosperity and growth of smes is not stifled, we must put smes at the heart of all future decisions and we must ensure that harmful, costly and bureaucratic legislation is repealed. if the commission is serious about assisting smes for the future, it must prioritise addressing the foundations of the problem rather than sugarcoating the situation with taxpayers’ money.
rapporteur.– madam president, small radio-controlled model aircraft have been flown by enthusiasts for many decades. the first recorded use of them in the uk was in 1935 when the british royal navy used the dh82 queen bee for target practice. during the past 15 years we have seen rapid growth in the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), more commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs) or drones. technology developed primarily for military purposes is now being applied for commercial use, pushing technological and legislative boundaries. in recognition of the rapid development of this market, rpas are rightly being incorporated into existing aviation programmes such as sesar and horizon 2020. in addition, the potential for growth in this industry, from the manufacturer to the end user, is immense for large and small businesses alike. therefore, it is imperative that we maintain world-class standards for manufacturing. europe leads the world in drone development, with two and a half thousand drone operators. in the uk alone we have more than 600 rpas operations providing services from photography to land surveillance. rpass have become an increasingly popular alternative to manned aircraft for aerial surveillance activities, among other things. they are used to monitor railway lines, power plants and farmers’ crops, as well as at rock concerts and in football stadiums. they are being used increasingly in humanitarian circumstances, in dealing with forest fires and earthquakes, for example, and in search and rescue operations. at the same time, ‘baby drones’ designed for leisure and hobby use have become increasingly popular. all the stakeholders have recognised the potential of this market and we are all keen to stress that any policy framework must enable growth in it in order to compete globally. my role as rapporteur has been to find the right direction and framework to take this industry to the next stage, and i believe that this report, as it now stands, has answered the key questions. earlier this year i brought together representatives from industry, member states, civil aviation authorities, air traffic services, the european safety agency and the commission. it was widely recognised by participants that any framework must be proportionate and risk-based to enable the sector to grow while, at the same time, avoiding any unnecessary burdens. in addition, any legislation must reflect global cooperation in order to stimulate r&d. i also had constructive meetings in washington in march with representatives from the us federal aviation administration (faa) and the us transport department. this all culminated in a high-level meeting under the latvian presidency in riga, which produced the riga declaration. that key message stated that the european aviation community would commit itself to allowing businesses to provide rpas services everywhere in europe from 2016. to do this, i believe that we need to establish european and global rules which will address the following areas: air worthiness, certification, commercial and recreational use, drone identity, appropriate pilot training, liability and insurance, operations, protection and privacy, geo-fencing and no-fly zones. the joint authorities for rulemaking on unmanned systems (jarus) is a committee comprising non-eu and eu member states and national aviation authorities. it sits under the umbrella of the international civil aviation organisation (icao). its purpose is to develop technical safety and operational requirements for the certification and safe integration of large and small rpas into airspace and at aerodromes. the chair of jarus is a representative from european aviation safety agency (easa). in my view, jarus is ideally placed to draft global safety regulations for the use of these systems quickly and effectively. we need to ensure that any future eu rules will be compatible with international arrangements through a process of mutual recognition. to conclude, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on transport and tourism for their very constructive input and cooperation, as well as our colleagues on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and in particular patrick cassidy from the ecr group, who has been an invaluable help to me. i believe that we have acknowledged the opportunities that this nascent market can create for both investment and job creation, whilst at the same time safeguarding public interest. i would therefore ask parliament for its support in order to send a strong political message that we are ready for this new exciting step forward for the aviation sector. (applause)
madam president, i am speaking against this report. in paragraph 21 it calls for clear harmonised and proportionate european and global regulatory framework, which looks like to me that the rapporteur is trying to push more powers to the eu. there is a call for the commission to remove the 150 kilogramme limit in paragraph 22 and replace it with the eu regulatory framework that would allow national competent authorities to oversee the activities. what right does the eu have to decide what a national competent authority actually is? then in paragraph 48 there is a call for a regular reporting mechanism at eu level that would address our past incidents. (the president instructed the speaker to slow down)i would like to know the definition of ‘incident’ as it is a very broad term. i am in agreement with the uk government that any heavy-handed regulation could only stifle potential growth in this new emerging area of technology. the general public who fly model aircraft are going to be penalised by the lack of clarity demonstrated this report. i urge all members to vote against this.
madam president, i welcome this debate on drones, and the thoughtful and consultative way in which our report under consideration today was produced. i utterly reject the unhelpful and ill-informed knee-jerk comments of the ukip colleague opposite. there is a growing consensus among the public and experts that an extended legal framework on drones, for reasons of safety and orderly economic development, is necessary. it is clear that drone technology can be extremely useful – for example, in undertaking repairs and safety inspections in the construction and transport sectors that would be very risky for staff to conduct. however, drones are potentially dangerous aircraft, and there has been a growing incidence of serious accidents and near misses involving their use in europe and worldwide. it is therefore disappointing that the commission appears reluctant to regulate properly the leisure use of drones. speaking for myself, while drones can obviously create high quality jobs, i would be reluctant to see them replacing valued customer-service roles in the delivery and retail sectors.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and my colleagues for those very constructive and helpful comments. i would just like to clarify a couple of points on privacy. as we said, we work very closely with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and what we need to stress in our member states is that there are already strong laws in place and we must make sure that our law enforcement is absolutely up to scratch. so that is the starting point. in terms of these little baby drones – one of my colleagues mentioned it – we are not looking at regulating a tiny little thing that a child would play with. the whole point of this report is about that section in the middle, which is commercial use and the slightly bigger ones, which could actually cause damage. this is what this is about. it is also not about the top—end ones, which are already covered by aviation regulation. so this is why we are looking at a case—by—case type class approach. in terms of the protection of facilities – whether it to be nuclear plants, airports, etc. – this is where technology comes in. this is where i mentioned geofencing. we have been talking very often with these technological bods to find ways to see how we can deal with this. my good colleague, ms arnautu, is quite right: this is not about military use. this is just about civil use. the points that she has raised are very important. my final point goes to our colleague, ms seymour, who very sadly lacks any real understanding of the aviation sector and does not understand that aviation per se already comes under national (uk), european and global rules. that is what the sector does in any event, and drones will be no different. but never mind, i will perhaps explain that to her privately. on that closing point, i would just like to say that i am very much looking forward to what the commission will produce. i think that together we can come up with a very good regulation. my final point to the commissioner would be that i want to make sure that the manufacturers, the end-users and all the bodies that i have mentioned and spoken to are included in this debate and will be included as the legislation rolls on. i look forward to all members, hopefully, supporting this report in the vote at 11.30.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, tourism is a vital industry. in my constituency of wales alone it generates some 4.5 billion a year for the economy and supports nearly 89 000 full-time jobs. the industry, as we know, has huge potential and, developed correctly and responsibly, could provide many long-term benefits to communities right across the european union. the greens/european free alliance group welcomes the comprehensive nature of this report and thanks the rapporteur, isabella de monte, for her collaborative work. the report recognises the importance of cultural heritage in that all of our different languages can themselves be a driving force for good-quality tourism. also important is the inclusion of climate change and the urgent need to act on this, particularly for coastal, island, and mountainous areas. for us too, it was vital that the call for accessibility for people with reduced mobility was included. however, my group cannot support the language used in reference to the refugee crisis, which fails to recognise the dire circumstances of asylum seekers coming to europe and their need for support and for solidarity.
madam president, i want to focus on one aspect which is extremely important in this report, and that is safety in tourism accommodation. nine years ago this week, two children from my constituency, christi and bobby shepherd, died in a hotel in corfu. they died from carbon monoxide poisoning from a faulty boiler in their room. a simple carbon monoxide device, like the one i have here, could have saved their lives. the parents of the children asked me at the time: ‘are there no safety standards in european tourist accommodation?’ the answer today is still no. for the past nine years, i have been working with the commission, with your predecessors, commissioner, and this year the commission published the outcome of a green paper on tourism safety. now, commissioner, it is time to act on that report. the coroner who investigated the deaths of the children has called for action at european level. public opinion wants action: firefighters, consumer associations and travel agencies. so we now need the commission to bring forward proposals. we need the support of this parliament and of all our governments. this is something on which europe could make a real difference, and we need your support.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, regulatory bodies, industry and citizens are agreed that aircraft tracking by satellite must be improved urgently. the successful and growing european satellite industry is ready to play its part. lack of sufficient allocation of radio spectrum is only one of the barriers in this area, but it is a very significant one. this is not just about search and rescue operations, but it is also about increasing the ability to help aircraft avoid poor weather and to help them take less environmentally-damaging and shorter routes. the international air transport association has effectively already supported reviewing and extending spectrum allocations. this is something we should do. travellers and families need this extra reassurance and confidence in airline systems. i welcome this oral question and i would urge colleagues in plenary to support the resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i welcome the question that has been tabled by our colleague, michael cramer. i think it has come at a very appropriate time. ironically, i raised this issue of radio spectrum for the aviation sector more than 13 years ago. that was when i was on the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). the reason at that time was the growth of mobile phones and it was actually before galileo, so we have certainly moved on apace. that is exactly what technology has done. therefore, we must be in a position where we can benefit from these advanced sophisticated systems for tracking flights. air accident investigators worldwide are trusted by the public to investigate air accidents and incidents absolutely fully. it is therefore our responsibility to provide them with the tools to do the job. so we welcome the debate on this topic, rapporteur, and we are certainly supporting you in the ecr group.
mr president, i was living in brussels when the french government introduced its 75% top rate tax, and my street very quickly filled up with french exiles, brussels being not far by train. there was only one belgian woman left, a matriarch of the street who i knew, and i remember her stopping me one day as i was leaving the house and saying, ‘you’re in politics, monsieur le député, explain something to me: what kind of hell are these poor souls fleeing from if they regard belgium as a paradis fiscale?’ what the hollande government had learned is that high punitive taxes do not redistribute wealth: they redistribute people. behind this report, instead of a look at why we have a problem with people fleeing to friendlier tax jurisdictions, is an attempt to brand them as tax havens and to attack them. surely it is we who have the problem, and the solution is in our hands. if we could cut tax to a more acceptable level, not only would we boost our prosperity, but the issue of tax havens would disappear.
mr president, the more we learn about life and the universe, the more we realise that things are unplanned, spontaneous and organic – not just evolution itself, but language, society, law and technology. only the european union – or, rather, only a large and remote state – would presume to have an agency that could control the development of computing, cyber—crime and all the rest of it. these things by definition cannot be run from the centre. that is why they are so successful – precisely because they are decentralised, unplanned and crowd-sourced. artemis is a rather neat metaphor for what is wrong with the entire european economy. if you try and run these things from the centre – be you the best, wisest and most disinterested people – you cannot, lacking a panoptic view of what is going on, possibly equal the invigilation of a million consumers, each making a self—interested and rational decision.
mr president, these discharge votes are kind of tedious. they are especially tedious for you. you are taking it in good cheer and you are being courteous and friendly, as always, but here we are, one after another, basically having the same argument about every one of these quangos and institutions. there is always some improper spending, there is always some waste – not because they are european but because they are quangos. it happens at every level. it happens at national level. the reason it happens is because they know that the oversight is limited to an occasional debate here involving people who, for the first time, have looked up what these agencies are, have no idea where they are and have never visited them. and so you have a situation where the employees, not being answerable to anyone, can concentrate on making themselves comfortable. human nature being what it is, that is what goes on – and thus we have built this great corpus of interest of people who want to carry on with the project, not because of any great philosophical or idealistic attachment to it, but because it has become a handy way to make a living. would we all not be better off – you and me and the interpreters who could go home – if we simply cut out a number of these agencies?
mr president, i could make the same speech for every single one of these, could i not? they have all got the same basic problem and it would be tedious for you and tedious for everyone else, so i am just going to repeat the basic point. who would miss these agencies, these quangos, if they disappeared? if, by some terrible freak of nature they were all wiped out in asteroid strikes, would any of our constituents feel a deleterious impact on their quality of life? rather than standing up and making this speech for every other discharge vote, i am going to call it a day at this one, and leave members with the thought that we would all be much happier and wealthier and freer if we had fewer of these people telling us what to do.
mr president, one minute is not enough to do justice to the subject of the long—term lessons that we can take from the ebola crisis. we need to be constructively critical – not just of the european union, but also of our national governments. firstly, the slow response to the crisis was a big problem internationally. secondly, our westernised way of thinking quite often got in the way of finding the right solutions, which are often the quickest solutions to get something onto the ground. the charitable sector, the ngos, actually understood this a lot better than we did in the west and in politics quite often. thirdly, the myths that we saw in the media about ebola – the way that people got an impression that was very different from the reality – was something which acted as a stumbling block. the media needs to be far more responsible than it was. finally, there is an issue of money and the medical research that needed to be going into that, but sadly it was not sufficiently profitable for the drug companies. there are many, many reasons why we need to learn from that crisis.
mr president, this is a situation where, fundamentally, i voted against not because of a matter of sovereignty per se, but also because i think that we are taking the wrong approach. we need to take a carrot—not—stick approach to improving emissions. i look for example at various tax breaks and incentives which have been tried to make things cheaper for the consumer when they choose more efficient vehicles, and that is something which works very well indeed in practice. so i take the view that the carrot—not—stick approach works better. the actions of volkswagen were clearly appalling. the question is, was this something which was known about well in advance, and if so, why was it not brought to light much sooner? finally, i would say that obsessing over the single measure of co2 within the environment is something which we have done time and time again, and when we obsess about that one measure and forget – in the case of diesel, for example – the nox and sox emissions, we end up with a lopsided environmental policy when we need balance.
in writing. ‒ this file sought to enhance the remit of cepol with a focus on strategic objectives, not exclusively training. the file also sought to enhance the autonomous nature of cepol and increase its funding. i, therefore, voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ my mandate is to reject further eu integration, and therefore the establishment of a pan-eu agency for law enforcement training.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes any attempt to ‘europeanise’ police training and operation in europe. we feel that british people are best placed to decide how their police services operate (all meps voted against as recommended).
in writing. – ukip opposes any attempt to ‘europeanise’ police training and operation in europe. we feel that british people are best placed to decide how their police services operate (all meps voted against as recommended).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to update the legal basis of cepol so as to improve eu security through the implementation of a new training approach for eu law enforcement officers.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes any attempt to ‘europeanise’ police training and operation in europe. we feel that british people are best placed to decide how their police services operate (all meps voted against, as recommended).
in writing. – ukip opposes any attempt to ‘europeanise’ police training and operation in europe. we feel that british people are best placed to decide how their police services operate. my fellow meps and i all voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it calls for a stronger framework to provide high quality training for law enforcement officers in the fight against organised cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which endorsed an agreement reached between the european parliament and national governments in the council to replace the existing european police college with an eu agency for law enforcement training (cepol). this agency will not affect the independence of each member state’s national police force, but coordinate training particularly for cross-border crime. s&d meps pushed particularly for strong provisions for fundamental rights and data protection.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes any attempt to ‘europeanise’ police training and operation in europe. we feel that british people are best placed to decide how their police services operate (all meps voted against, as recommended).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because i am against any eu-funded training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation as it places more focus on eu added value, insofar as it ensures that the work of cepol is better managed and organised, covering areas such as cooperation with eu agencies and protection of fundamental rights, particularly in relation to data protection. there should be more adequate funding for cepol and it should be given the resources to carry out its tasks in relation to combating cross-border crime. this legislative proposal is promising in that regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. under new rules, cepol will be able to equip law enforcement officials of all ranks with the knowledge and skills they need to prevent cross-border crime effectively through cooperation with their colleagues in other member states, eu agencies, third countries and international organisations. cepol will also be enabled to deliver essential training to third countries, particularly on counter-terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ this will extend the powers of esma, including the power to draft regulatory and implementing technical standards for the commission to adopt. i note the reference to ‘administrative sanctions’ including fines of up to 10% of turnover. i further note the power which article 27 gives to the commission to adopt delegated acts. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the soru report in support of improving transparency and monitoring securities financing transactions, in line with international measures. this legislation is in line with the international work in this area and introduces a reporting requirement for securities financing transactions (sfts), re-hypothecation and securities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will ensure that securities financing transactions will be more transparent in the future. the underlying reason for the securities financing transactions report is to make our banking system safer, increase transparency and improve supervision. these instruments play a significant role in the financial sector in that they ensure liquidity in the secondary debt market, contribute to an efficient settlement and allow for better employment of capital. this agreement not only strengthens the reporting obligation, it also improves the collection of data on the transactions, enabling better monitoring of risk concentrations and identifying counterparty exposures. it is important we do not focus merely on regulating the banking sector but also tackle other means through which highly risky activities continue within our financial services sector. this is critical for the success of the capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it aims to make the financial sector more transparent and more stable. it is crucial that we managed to increase the transparency of these transactions by strengthening the reporting obligations and the supervisory role and at the same time by reducing double reporting.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which brings vital transparency to the financial sector. i particularly welcome the reporting obligations and supervisory role which this legislation will introduce.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it extends the commission’s power.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to make the financial sector more transparent. it is crucial that we manage to increase the transparency of these transactions by strengthening the reporting obligations and the supervisory role and, at the same time, by reducing double reporting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to make the financial section more transparent and more stable. it is crucial that we are successful in increasing the transparency of these transactions by strengthening the reporting obligations and the supervisory role and at the same time by reducing double reporting
in writing. ‒ i oppose electronic mass surveillance of citizens. i also believe that it is for national governments to determine their own laws. just because i believe that the uk government has got the wrong policy, does not mean that i should automatically support the european union overruling it. i would rather the british parliament adjusted its own attitude towards these issues.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the notion that the state can monitor citizens who have committed no crime. we feel that if citizens are under reasonable legal suspicion then appropriate measure may be taken with proper civil liberties and legal safeguards. in terms of any monitoring and surveillance, the eu has no right to be involved in this process.
in writing. – ukip opposes the notion that the state can monitor citizens who have committed no crime. we feel that if citizens are under reasonable legal suspicion then appropriate measure may be taken with proper civil liberties and legal safeguards. in terms of any monitoring and surveillance, the eu has no right to be involved in this process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution to urge the commission to take further action to ensure that the rights of eu citizens regarding electronic surveillance are properly protected, and to urge member states to grant protection to edward snowden as a ‘human rights defender’. it is in the interest of my constituents in wales to ensure that data transfers between them and the us are subject to effective levels of protection, to safeguard their privacy and human rights.
in writing. – my fellow meps and i opposed the notion that the state can monitor citizens who have committed no crime. we feel that if citizens are under reasonable legal suspicion then appropriate measure may be taken with proper civil liberties and legal safeguards. in terms of any monitoring and surveillance, the eu has no right to be involved in this process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as the eu must advance in its efforts to rebuild trust in citizens on the issue of mass surveillance by clamping down on arbitrary abuses of the fundamental right to privacy.
in writing. ‒ this report concludes parliament’s investigation into mass surveillance of european citizens. it makes clear that surveillance has been widespread and has not contained adequate data protection and privacy provisions. there has not been sufficient judicial or political oversight, and we have not seen enough action from either the member state governments nor the commission to rectify this. parliament will take this forward in our work on data privacy.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the notion that the state can monitor citizens who have committed no crime. we feel that if citizens are under reasonable legal suspicion then appropriate measures may be taken with proper civil liberties and legal safeguards. in terms of any monitoring and surveillance, the eu has no right to be involved in this process.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because i do not wish to see the eu legislate on this subject. i do, however, recognise the issues in connection with mass surveillance.
in writing. ‒ i have been concerned in recent years as the revelations have come out surrounding the use of mass surveillance techniques in relation to online data. the right to a private life is a right that is critical to the functioning of any decent society and that does not change when we go online. i was particularly eager to ensure that there is an effective level of protection to data transfers to the us in the wake of the striking down of safe harbour. the desire for safety is important, and the threats that the security forces protect us from are also real. however, we should not allow these facts to override the very freedoms that we are fighting protect. it is too easy to sacrifice real freedom for perceived security, hence why i have supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the rosati report seeks commission interference in pension reforms, amongst other matters, and therefore i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report. although i support the recommendations for structural reforms, that the eu should be more globally competitive, and indeed the benefits of the capital markets union for smes, the report makes some reference to a fiscal union and the recommendations are largely non-binding for the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rosati report which, thanks to our group’s efforts, opens the door for a change in direction in european economic policy: more investment and less austerity, recognition of the real consequence of frontloaded austerity measures, surplus countries to do more efforts in pushing demand, labour market reforms to be sustainable.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is the annual cycle of policy guidance from the commission for the fiscal and structural reform policies of each member state. the commission provides country-specific recommendations and monitors the implementation of commonly agreed policies with national governments. these measures are designed to ensure member states are not heading for financial difficulties which would put all member states at risk. the s&d group has fought hard to include more social criteria and to ensure any recommendations to labour market reform do not weaken workers’ rights or promote precarious employment but in fact strengthen the european social model and promote sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish to see the commission involved in pension reforms.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is a powerful tool for making european policy more effective, but it must include strong social and sustainability pillars, and prioritise social inclusion. the semester must strengthen social europe, not weaken it. the reforms included in csrs must not amount simply to more austerity, or reduction in social protections, public services or workers’ rights. social impact assessments must be carried out, and csrs must aim to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is also important to remember that austerity and the economic crisis have had a disproportionate impact on women. the commission and member states must include a gender perspective in policy-making when laying out and implementing csrs.
in writing. ‒ the aims of the report itself are laudable enough, but national parliaments should be discussing such matters.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given it is clear we need to take decisive action fight long-term unemployment. we need to give people the tools to adequately integrate themselves into the employment market.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ unemployment in the east of england rose by 9 000 in the last quarterly figures which were published, showing not just the fragility of economic recovery but the continuing challenge to find ways to help those suffering long-term unemployment in particular. recently i was privileged to help out at a european-funded project to help jobless run by community action hertsmere in hertfordshire. i have been honoured to join similar eu-funded schemes around my constituency run by the prince’s trust and the ymca. they do a brilliant job in helping raise confidence for people whose long-term unemployment means low self-esteem is one of the biggest barriers to finding work. my real sadness is that whilst i am working for european projects to provide this help, the government of my country is more interested in benefit sanctions to drive unemployment statistics down and to leave people still unemployed but also penniless. we have to do better.
in writing. – my fellow meps and i voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation. the integration of the long-term unemployed is hugely important and requires specific and sensitive assistance. i hope we can learn best practice across the eu to implement strategies in the member states which have a lasting and positive impact.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-binding and non-legislative resolution as we oppose any eu interference in our employment policies. the resolution called for eu surveillance of long-term unemployment recommendations and to give instructions to member states through country-specific recommendations. it is burdensome eu legislation that is costing jobs and preventing job creation. also the policy of open borders to 500 million people which the tories and labour party supports makes it harder for british people to find jobs and supresses their wages. only the people we democratically elect in our own countries should decide employment law, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish to see the commission involved in the uk jobs market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation because i want to see an eu strategy for addressing long-term unemployment. although i do not believe that the recommendation will go far enough in some cases, this represents a step in the right direction and this is a great reason to have the united kingdom remain in the european union.
in writing. ‒ long-term unemployment is not a problem relating to one member state or even to europe, but one that we must come to terms with if the promise of the european union is to be fulfilled by all our citizens. i was, therefore, proud to vote on this resolution. we must do more, more effectively, to give people the tools to exit long-term unemployment and utilise their talents for the common good. too often we patronise people in long-term unemployment, and presume that they need to be harshly punished to force them into gainful work, when almost all are striving for work but have not been given the tools to adequately integrate themselves into the employment market.
in writing. ‒ this report is all about harmonisation, taking power away from member states and heavy-handed regulation which could stifle investment or technological advance. on a technical point, i note the intention to remove the 150kg threshold and believe that this will impact further upon member states.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. – we have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. – we have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in the field of civil aviation. given civilian drones are becoming increasingly common across european airspace it is imperative that eu rules are put in place to ensure they are used safely and responsibly. i welcome parliament’s call for laws that recognise the potential benefits of drones, which are used for a wide range of tasks, from checking crops in fields to filming at music festivals, whilst also guaranteeing the privacy and data protection of citizens.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. – my fellow meps and i have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as civilian drones are becoming increasingly common across european airspace, so we need eu rules that make sure they are used safely and responsibly. labour welcomes the parliament’s call for laws that recognise the potential benefits of drones, whilst also guaranteeing the privacy and data protection of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which is a step towards effective eu rules on drones to ensure they are used safely and responsibly. the proliferation of the use of drones from crop management to recreational use means we need to update rules to reflect their use. i particularly support privacy and data protection being a key element of any upcoming legislation.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this as this report supports the commission’s proposal to remove the 150 kg threshold. currently in the uk the caa is responsible for anything up to 150 kg. this is a further proposal to remove powers from the uk to the eu. this report was proposed by a uk conservative mep and voted for by all uk meps except ukip.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as this will allow for the easa to take control over civil aviation in the uk under the current 150 kg threshold. paragraphs 21, 22 and 48 all allow for more powers to be transferred to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need eu rules to make sure rpass are used safely and responsibly, especially when filming at music festivals and from civilian drones, increasingly more common across the eu. i welcome the parliament’s call for laws that recognise the benefits that may come from the use of drones, and it is great to see that there is an acknowledgement of the potential abuse that may arise from their usage, from invasions of privacy and guaranteeing citizens’ data protection.
in writing. ‒ once again, we are voting on a matter which should be dealt with by each individual member states. is the uk tourist industry not fundamentally different from that of greece, for example?
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters.
in writing. – we have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters..
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters.
in writing. – we have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters.
in writing. – the uk conservative delegation voted against this report for a number of reasons. firstly, we refuse to lend our voice to calls in this report for a single european agency for tourism, or for an increased eu budget for tourism in the next multiannual financial framework – which we fear would undermine efforts to restrain spending at eu level. secondly, we cannot support the driving philosophy of this report: giving the commission more powers to market europe as a single entity under a commission-led brand ‘destination europe’ – which would risk undermining existing successful campaigns at national level. finally, whilst we support high quality standards in holiday accommodation across the eu, we believe it is up to the relevant member state authorities, which already possess the required powers, to ensure that these standards remain high and that hotel and hostel owners are in full compliance with health and safety legislation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which highlights the need for a european tourism sector that is sustainable, responsible and accessible. i am pleased to see an emphasis on the role of smes and the need for investment in training and education in order to provide quality jobs. crucially, this report recognises labour’s call for european legislation on tourism accommodation safety. labour will continue to work with consumer groups, safety organisations and industry representatives to prevent rare but devastating cases where inadequate health and safety rules have led to tragedies, including deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters.
in writing. – my fellow mep’s and i have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report, which includes labour amendments calling for urgent action to address carbon monoxide safety across europe in tourism settings, as it calls on the european commission to come forward with proposals for minimum standards for tourism safety in the european union, particularly on fire safety and carbon monoxide safety in holiday accommodation.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendations in this report for updating rules for a sustainable, accessible and responsible tourism sector, which is vital for the eu economy and for the well—being of european citizens. in particular, i welcome the calls for increasing minimum safety standards such as those on carbon monoxide detection. the emphasis on smes and on training investment for high-quality jobs is also welcome.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed this report as it is up to member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency or to promote europe as a tourist brand, neither is there the necessity to create an eu-wide quality brand. ukip is in agreement with the uk government on these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is for member states to develop their own tourism sectors. there should not be the requirement to set up an eu tourist agency nor to promote europe as a tourist brand.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this report, highlighting the need for a tourism sector in europe which is not only sustainable, but also accessible and responsible. i am so pleased to see an emphasis on the role of the smes and the need for investment in training and education in order to provide quality jobs. crucially, this report recognises my party’s call for european legislation on tourism accommodation safety. labour will continue to work with consumer groups, safety organisations and industry representatives to prevent rare, but devastating, cases where inadequate health and safety rules have led to tragedies including deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the language used in the paragraph regarding the ‘uncontrolled influx of immigrants’ is unhelpful in the context of this report and the wider refugee crisis debate.
in writing. ‒ it is not for the european union to instruct aviation companies of member states on how they should conduct their own business.
in writing. ‒ flight—tracking systems today cover only around 30% of global airspace, corresponding to national territory. there is no coverage over seas or deserts. the tragic events involving malaysia airlines flight mh370 clearly show the need for a system that allows flights to be tracked at all times, including in remote areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not wish to see the commission getting involved in this area.
madam president, pursuant to rule 152 of the rules of procedure, i would like to move that we postpone the debate on zero-rating practice to the november ii part session in strasbourg and replace it with council and commission statements on the outcome of the 9 november competitiveness council in relation to the steel sector. as many colleagues are aware, the steel industry across europe has been facing unprecedented pressures in recent years. we cannot ignore the fact that the industry is facing unfair competition and anti-competitive market behaviour. chinese steel exports have risen by 28% in the first six months of the year, flooding the market with steel that is sold at a loss. this is dramatically destabilising the global steel market and the flow of trade, risking european steel manufacturing as a whole and in my country in particular. this matter is urgent and no harm will be caused by postponing the debate on zero-rating by two weeks. can i therefore ask colleagues to show support for the steel industry in europe and vote in favour of adding this urgent debate to our session agenda? on behalf of my group, i request a roll-call vote on that matter.
mr president, the commission’s work programme for 2016, encouragingly, states that it is not business as usual. many challenges are still to be faced in terms of economic recovery and cutting unemployment. commissioner thyssen indicated yesterday that progress is not unified across the member states, and i agree. the five presidents’ report recognises that there is no one-size-fits-all solution, which is something i very much welcome. the commission has indicated its intention to develop a european pillar of social rights that takes into account the changing realities of europe. it suggested that it start with the eurozone countries. that is, frankly, where it should stay. in his letter to mr tusk, the british prime minister outlined the two types of europe – those that are inside the euro and those that are outside. the uk is outside, but we do not want to stand in the way of any measures that eurozone countries decide to take to secure the long-term future of their currency.
mr president, for all the grand talk about investment and structural reform, the truth is this: that the european union countries in general have experienced another year of paltry growth and are failing to tackle mass unemployment and, particularly, sky-high youth unemployment. to the extent that the vista ahead is any less bleak, the prime cause is not a sound basis for long-term progress; it is the belated application of quantitative easing across the euro area and the accompanying weakening of the euro. a few years ago one pound sterling was worth only eur 1.10. now it is worth eur 1.40, and yet this exchange rate will surely merely further demonstrate the folly of holding so many divergent economies within a single currency. a somewhat weaker euro will tend to increase trade surpluses in germany, while it will not be sufficient to stimulate recovery in greece. after 15 years of failure, it is surely not too early for supporters of the euro to admit it has been a calamity. it has failed for precisely the reasons we sceptics forecast. weaker economies on lower productivity paths have had economic activity sucked out of them while stuck in a fixed exchange rate with germany. artificially cheap money, loaned under the misapprehension that the might of germany stood behind the borrowings of others, has destabilised economies across the euro area. yet now you seem to want to integrate further to create a common treasury which will remove tax and spending decisions from national democratic control, and yet the productivity path of the southern periphery will still not match that of germany. the southern countries lack the scale, the brands, the r&d budgets, the technical education, the smooth industrial relations, the communications infrastructure and the exceptional cultural reverence for work and organisation of germany. you will need enormous and permanent transfer payments to compensate the weaker parts for living in this straitjacket, and yet the levels of social solidarity required for that will not be forthcoming. you will, i am afraid, have reawakened the latent national hostilities you hoped to banish and locked these countries into an age of economic stagnation. i am full of sorrow that you cannot see the folly of your ways.
mr president, it seems to me almost laughable that the eu is to publish a report on growth when it is at the centre of europe’s relative global decline. the eu is about nothing more than the erosion of national sovereignty and the centralisation of powers in brussels. and what is brussels but an autocratic, bureaucratic leviathan wallowing in red tape and destroying any competitiveness that europe could possibly have with regulations on everything imaginable? at the centre of this political project is an economic anomaly, the euro. this currency never was – and never will be – an economically-sound project. it was a political project and not an economic project. while this may make the federalists here feel fluffy and warm, it certainly does not make the people of europe feel fluffy and warm as they are entering into an economic crisis. for the stifling of europe’s competitiveness and the euro as the common disease, the only medicine with a hope of curing europe is a euro exit and a return to the original currencies. thankfully, the case for the uk is not so dire. in the last five years the uk has generated more jobs than the rest of europe put together. unfortunately, the brits are not feeling the benefits, because of endless supplies of cheap european labour flooding our markets and reducing our standard of living. this is also increasing the housing problem. we have a housing crisis in the uk, and we have to build a new house every seven minutes just to keep up. that is a scandal, and we cannot have any more of it. there are only two ways to sort out the uk housing market: firstly to increase supply and, secondly, to halt open-door european immigration. now that cameron’s pathetic list of demands – well, rather pleas, really – have finally been published, we know definitively that free movement of people is not up for negotiation. it may please ukip ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i hope that as commissioner dombrovskis drafts the new annual growth survey, he will rectify two major problems with its predecessor. first, last year’s report ignores the disaster of competitive wage devaluation. the economic evidence speaks for itself. where there has been recovery, in many cases this has been driven by exports, with the notable exception, of course, of my own country, the uk, which has an appalling current account deficit. across much of the eu, demand from domestic consumption has stagnated, and it has often stagnated because wages have stagnated or even fallen. increasing the incomes of the least well-off people across europe is one of the most effective and sustainable ways of promoting growth. i hope this will be acknowledged, rather than dismissed, in the new report. second, last year’s report only promoted the involvement of social partners in implementing decisions – decisions that were taken by others – yet trade unions in particular often play an essential role in increasing workforce skills and productivity. five minutes from where i live, there is a factory that produces three mini cars every minute. trade unionists in that factory, working hand-in-hand with management, have introduced radical innovations, both in production methods and also in management of the workforce. commissioner dombrovskis, we have got rid of many relics from the 1970s: flares, kipper ties and abba have all gone, whether we like it or not. please can we also get rid of outdated attitudes about trade unionists and put them right back at the heart of decision-making around the economy, where they belong.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this resolution. i shall focus on the content of that, and of course the effort he has made to gain support across the groups. but whilst we agree with a great deal of the content, unfortunately there are three key areas which we cannot support. the first is in paragraph 7 and the reference to competition issues. in my view, it is not the eu’s role to determine how third-country global carriers run their businesses or are funded. provided they are complying with the terms of their air service agreements and international obligations, we are not in a position to interfere. this approach would without doubt seriously damage the credibility of the eu, and it would also undermine our businesses. my second point focuses on the social agenda section. we stress that the aviation industry is recognised as a growing sector that has attracted and provided highly-skilled and motivated professionals, and that in order to continue this trend, current employment legislation on working conditions, standards and practices, including collective bargaining, should be maintained. unfortunately, the additional paragraphs are extremely overly prescriptive and go into details on employment contracts, job location, etc, which are issues that come under the auspices of national and eu employment law and are not directly dealt with in the committee on transport and tourism (tran). thirdly, paragraph 23 makes a reference to easa’s role in icao, and whilst fully supporting proper recognition of easa as an extremely effective safety agency, i should stress that we do not support a single eu voice in this area. worldwide, individual countries are contracted directly to icao under the chicago convention, and therefore i do not support the removal of the representative from each member state. to conclude, these are the key reasons why we have tabled a separate ecr resolution, and we will be unable to support the joint resolution at this time. but we would like to thank the rapporteur and we do look forward, commissioner, to receiving your proposals in december.
mr president, aviation is key for economic growth. ryanair and easyjet have done more for regional development than countless billions of our regional development aid, and that is the private sector. aviation is also a global business, so we have to be open and competitive, and we need innovation. we should support new business models and new solutions in air traffic management, integrated ticketing and alternative fuels. we should also speed up the implementation of the single european sky and the single european sky atm research (sesar) programmes and conclude comprehensive aviation agreements with our partners. in a time of limited capacity, we should also be promoting the importance of our regional airports, for example birmingham, which is in my constituency. aviation is not free of tax, no matter what our green colleagues think. many member states levy airport tax. this is gbp 71 or eur 100 for a long-haul flight per passenger from the uk. it is eur 42 from germany. i think these taxes should be scrapped by these member states. this is a brake on our competitiveness. we need to realise that we need to be flexible, open and innovative. we are in a global marketplace.
mr president, the problem in the aviation sector has for years been that we continue to treat it as a sector. we ask questions about the sector, rather than asking questions about how the sector fits into the economy and society as a whole. that is why we end up with ridiculous situations, like in the uk, where we have a review of aviation and decide to build a 77th airport in london, when what we actually need is to increase the capacity of regional airports like birmingham. birmingham airport delivers over gbp 1 billion to the regional economy and nearly gbp 2 billion to the national economy. it should – and could – be a lot more. when we are considering the strategic importance of our airports to the whole economy, we need to consider the working conditions of the people who work in them. we do not want zero-hours contracts, pay-to-fly and these kinds of exploitative conditions in such important places.
mr president, the future aviation package is a perfect opportunity to revisit the arrangements for the safety agency for aircraft, commonly known as easa. the aerospace manufacturing sector is vital for both our industrial base in the eu and also for innovation, particularly in areas like composites. in my region, for example, airbus employs 4 000 people directly and thousands of others in the supply chain, but there is a backlog of planes: 6 000 waiting to get certification as a consequence of the delays in easa. the industry desperately needs the rules covering the agency to be revisited. we need this to stay competitive in a global industry and, best of all as a budget committee member, this need not be at any more cost to the eu budgets. so please take this opportunity to make sure that we can make the agency work for the industry and to maintain the security and the high levels of safety that the industry has a record of as well.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, every person in europe has the right to access the online content they want and use the applications they wish without discrimination or interference, and all internet traffic must be treated equally. we have just agreed new rules across europe that enshrine these principles into our law. but now the left wants to go further and to start picking and choosing what commercial offers individual companies can make. if a mobile phone company wants to offer free access to certain content, some consumers might want to choose that offer – consumers should have that choice. and in the traditional world this is totally acceptable. every time i leave my home to do my food shopping, i can choose: do i go to the supermarket that charges me more but gives me a free newspaper, or do i go to the supermarket with a lower price but no free newspaper? that is my choice. of course, we need a fair marketplace, and we must make sure our competition laws are upheld. but this is why we have just empowered our national regulators to deal with anti-competitive behaviour. introducing haphazard bans at will, without thinking through the impact or discussing their full consequence, is not the right way to approach the digital revolution.
in writing.– last month’s vote was a significant step forward, enshrining the principle of net neutrality for the first time into law in all eu countries including the uk. the blocking and throttling of online content, apps and services will now be banned across the eu. however, important loopholes still remain, most importantly the possibility for zero rating, in which telecoms companies allow customers to access certain websites and services for free without using up their data allowance. there is a real risk that mobile operators could use zero rating as a way to incentivise the use of their own services, while lowering overall data allowances. these uncompetitive practices would be bad for consumers, bad for start-ups and bad for competitiveness and innovation in the digital economy. it is now up to national regulators to uphold an open, competitive internet which allows entrepreneurs and start-ups to thrive and compete on a level playing field. if operators are using zero-rating practices to limit competition and favour their own services, immediate enforcement action must be taken. i, along with other meps, will be carefully monitoring developments and fighting to ensure the principles of net neutrality we voted for are properly upheld.
blue-card question.– may i just ask the gentleman a question and see if he agrees with me? at the moment, great britain has put more money into camps on the syrian-turkish border than anybody else. would it not be better if these countries handed the money over themselves, or set up their own camps in syria, rather than the european union taking the money, which it will no doubt waste in the usual way it does? at the moment, the european union has not been properly audited for the best part of 20 years. let us leave it to the national governments to do it and keep the european union’s sticky fingers out of it.
madam president, the idea of dealing with the problems of mass migration at source – or as close to source as possible – is one that we welcome. in fact, we have been calling on world governments to provide a global solution within the countries of origin or neighbouring states for some time. but, whilst european political establishments seek to use yet another crisis to demand yet more money from hard—pressed british taxpayers, we say no. there is more than enough money within the eu budget as is. if we stopped wasting this money on non-essential projects and actually channelled these hard-earned funds to lifesaving projects, we might see the public regaining faith in foreign aid. the spending of gbp 500 million on more than 100 publications and 1 000 videos, as well as cartoons, colouring books and other educational material is an example of wasteful spending and arrogance. instead of promoting our supposed values through propaganda, the eu would be well advised to lead through example by immediately ceasing to spend this money in this way and redirecting it towards measures aimed at solving the refugee crisis.
madam president, this year 1.3 million migrants – both asylum seekers and migrants – came to europe. next year, there will be an estimated 3 million. the eu solution is to provide a trust fund of a couple of billion euros to try and solve the african problem as they see it – an african problem that was caused by supporting regime change in libya and syria; an african problem that is caused by tariffs that compete harshly against african businesses; and an african problem that supports those governments that terrorise their own people. the eu is no friend of africa. the eu is no friend of its african people. the eu is no friend of its continent’s potential for being an economic power, as the eu’s proto—colonial policies are indeed driving down the ability of that continent to survive. this damages africa’s ability to feed its own nations through issues such as 7.5% tariffs on roasted coffee to protect the coffee-roasting industry of germany. as the nigerian authoress, chimamanda adichie, once said: africans do not need limp gifts of fish. they need sturdy fishing rods and fair access to the pond to survive.
blue-card question.– do you not agree with me that the european union is absolutely, flagrantly, useless with money? we have had 20 years of the accounts not being submitted properly or signed off. surely it is the worst possible agency in the world to distribute funds to africa or to any of these camps on the syrian—turkish border. would it not be better if the nation states of europe – for example, great britain or france – gave the money directly or set up these camps themselves? what is the point of giving it to the european union? let us cut out the middleman; let us give it directly to those camps. do you agree with me?
blue-card question.– i am grateful that you support the concept that this is not simply a european union issue, but a global issue. i have been campaigning for some time for the united nations to come together. would you support the argument that the united nations has been gravely inadequate in this problem by relying solely on the european union instead of calling for an international convention to deal with it on an international scale?
madam president, i was proud to be at the valletta summit earlier today and pleased to welcome the launch of the new eu trust fund for africa there. i am very happy to be involved in this debate tonight, back in brussels, to welcome the trust fund for syria. i would like to thank the budget authorities for their cooperation on this, and i am pleased that parliament boosted the amount in our own vote on 14 october. today, at the eu summit and in this parliament, i make clear, on behalf of the socialist and democrat group, that genuine new money must be pledged. this trust fund cannot be a cover simply for reassigning existing funds. if it is an instrument which will genuinely attract additional international donations, then it will be welcome. to british eurosceptics, who have simply tried to use this – and every debate – to criticise europe, it is true that the initial member state contributions have come from italy and germany and not my own country, great britain, but there are many of us in britain who do believe that coordinated help amongst international donors can improve aid for those who receive it. that should be our objective. let us remember that, while thousands of refugees have come to europe, there are millions in the states neighbouring syria. there is a shocking humanitarian shortfall. but it is right that we plan beyond immediate humanitarian relief, that we help refugees to gain livelihoods to integrate in their new societies, to assist host communities to receive them and to maintain cohesion in countries which are themselves fragile. the refugee crisis has been beset by short—term thinking. this trust fund is about planning for the long term, creating a better future... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, an mep’s life is a varied one. today i have worked on artists’ rights, the aviation safety agency, and vacuum cleaner efficiency tests, among other things. all of those were interesting and important, but while i was working on those issues, behind closed front doors across europe, women and children were living in fear in their own homes. that is why, of all the things i have done today, the outcome of this debate goes straight to my heart. since its launch in 1997, the daphne programme has helped fund some powerful causes. one such organisation which has received support is women’s aid, a national charity that is dedicated to ending domestic abuse. it is based in my region but works tirelessly throughout the uk to keep women and children safe and provide support to victims. my colleague iratxe should be praised for raising this debate, even if it is taking place at this hour. we must have clarity on how the daphne programme will continue to work. it is through this clarity that we can have accountability – accountability on what we are doing to prevent and combat domestic violence. we must be accountable to those organisations like women’s aid, but most of all we must be accountable to those women who, as we debate in this chamber, are seeking ways to protect their children.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, i do not think anyone could argue that providing more help for victims and support services is a bad thing. the question in this debate is asking about the accountability and transparency of the funding of projects under this eu programme. in the uk, we have no doubt that the eu is completely unaccountable and undemocratic and squanders taxpayers’ money. if we did not pay gbp 55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to support and protect the victims of violence. we would then be able to hold the politicians accountable for their policies, every five years. not so with the eu commission. the final point i would like to make is that because of eu free movement laws, we are not even allowed to do a criminal background check on people coming to our countries who have a history of violence. also, this open-door immigration policy provides the perfect environment for traffickers to exploit and abuse women and children.
madam president, the neuromuscular centre midlands (nmc) provides specialist physiotherapy to patients with muscular dystrophy – patients who have told me that this treatment is almost the only thing that helps them bear this terrible disease. it is not offered anywhere else in the west midlands. the cost is negligible. treating a single fall injury would cost more than specialised physiotherapy for a dozen patients for a year. so, on 22 july, i wrote from this parliament to the coventry and rugby ccg and the warwickshire north ccg, asking why they are not providing funding to the nmc, even though it is treating patients from their areas. neither replied. so, on 2 october this year, i wrote personally to their two chairs, dr adrian canale-parola and dr heather gorringe. neither still has bothered to reply. yet so many sufferers have told me that this treatment is the only thing that helps, and the cost is negligible. why will these faceless bureaucracies not pay for the treatment their people are using?
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to celebrate the results of last weekend’s election in myanmar/burma. as the news continues to come through, it is now certain that the nld, led by aung san suu kyi, will sweep the board. i had the pleasure of meeting this amazing lady a couple of years ago when i visited myanmar as part of this parliament’s asean delegation. it remains one of the highlights of my political career to have been welcomed by her into her now famous elegant home with its lush tropical gardens. indications are that the military dictatorship is going quietly, conceding defeat. let us hope that this continues to be the case. we so often hear stories of violence and oppression in this chamber; it is interesting to hear that this transition may happen without violence. given burma’s recent history, this is remarkable. there are clearly many challenges ahead, including the continuing presence of the military in the parliament and the dreadful plight of ethnic and religious minorities such as the rohingya, but i would like to take this moment to congratulate aung san suu kyi.
madam president, ‘nightmare’: that was the word used by a senior politician from northern ireland to describe the consequences of the united kingdom leaving the european union. why nightmare? three main reasons: first, exit from the eu would undermine 17 years of peace in a region that previously suffered decades of violence, civil strife and political failure. second, the nature of the border between the united kingdom and the republic of ireland would fundamentally change. instead of it being a porous border between two fellow eu member states, it would become a hard border, raising a whole host of questions regarding customs control, trade tariff and freedom of movement. third, the loss of key funding structures for farmers, business and community regeneration programmes would have a devastating impact on a region where incomes are 20% lower than the eu average. to conclude, leaving the eu would not be cost-free. i put it to the eurosceptics: would the end of the peace process in northern ireland, the building of a border fence and an increase in poverty be a price worth paying for a little england?
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the renewal of the eu isa2 programme: ‘interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens’. while we recognise the potential benefits of interoperability, we see this expensive eu programme as primarily designed to ‘europeanise’ public administration, and to prise it away from national control, rather than as an efficiency measure.
in writing. ‒ i strongly oppose the renewal of the ‘interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens’ programme. while i recognise the potential benefits of interoperability, i see this expensive eu programme as primarily designed to ‘europeanise’ public administration and to prise it away from national control, rather than as an efficiency measure. the current programme has a budget of eur 164 million for the period 2010-2015. the financial envelope for implementation of the new isa program for the period 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2020 is eur 130 928 000.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the renewal of the eu isa2 programme: ‘interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens’. while we recognise the potential benefits of interoperability, we see this expensive eu programme as primarily designed to ‘europeanise’ public administration, and to prise it away from national control, rather than as an efficiency measure.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the renewal of the eu isa2 programme: ‘interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens’. while we recognise the potential benefits of interoperability, we see this expensive eu programme as primarily designed to ‘europeanise’ public administration, and to prise it away from national control, rather than as an efficiency measure.
in writing. ‒ i am supportive of the overall aim of securing improvements in interoperability to reduce the problems involved in online transactions across borders and sectors in the eu. however, i am very concerned that there was no accompanying impact assessment with the initial proposal, and therefore we need to ensure that the recommendations from the interim evaluation of isa1 are implemented in isa2 in order to improve its overall effectiveness. impact assessments should be automatic when the commission proposes legislation. while significant improvements were made to the text from both the council and parliament, i believe that isa2 is still lacking a clear objective and failed to learn sufficient lessons from the first programme, hence my decision to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the interoperability of solutions for european public administration, businesses and citizens as it supports the interconnection, digitisation and collaboration of public administrations in europe. the current interoperability programme will end this year and has supported the development of egovernment solutions across the eu. having this programme in place will ensure seamless electronic cross-border or cross-sector interaction between european public administrations in areas such as government, health, invoicing and procurement.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the renewal of the eu isa2 programme: ‘interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens’. while we recognise the potential benefits of interoperability, we see this expensive eu programme as primarily designed to ‘europeanise’ public administration, and to prise it away from national control, rather than as an efficiency measure.
in writing. ‒ as digital systems become ever more important in all our lives, it is appropriate that we seek interoperability solutions across europe’s public administrations. this report rightly underlines that regional and local as well as national administrations are responsible for many services. it also highlights the importance of security and privacy. i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. isa2 is the latest in a series of programmes that have been supporting the interconnection, digitisation and collaboration of public administrations since the 1990s. this agreement will ensure that isa2 will be ready to kick in by the time the current isa programme expires at the end of 2015. i welcome the introduction of new priorities such as greater involvement of citizens, additional data-protection safeguards and enhanced cooperation between member states to overcome the digital divide and develop the creation of user communities and exchanges of good practice.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the renewal of the eu ‘interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens’ (isa2) programme. while we recognise the potential benefits of interoperability, we see this expensive eu programme as being designed primarily to ‘europeanise’ public administration and prise it away from national control, rather than being an efficiency measure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the interoperability report. i think her development is important. in particular, for the european institutions, interoperability is something we must promote. we need to develop efforts to modernise public administration at all levels and i see the isa programme as a good example of this effort.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the renewal of the eu ‘interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens’ (isa2) programme. while we recognise the potential benefits of interoperability, we see this expensive eu programme as being designed primarily to ‘europeanise’ public administration and prise it away from national control, rather than being an efficiency measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because i am opposed to further europeanisation of public administration. this bill also releases significant additional spending whilst taxpayers are being asked to accept cuts in front-line services.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the introduction in the programme of new priorities which will introduce a greater involvement of citizens and businesses. i also welcome the additional safeguards which concern data protection, a stronger emphasis on the reuse and sharing of references and solutions, and enhanced cooperation between member states in order to address the digital divide.
in writing. ‒ the report on a programme on interoperability solutions as a means of modernising the public sector is the latest proposal since the 1990s supporting the interconnection and digitisation of public administrations and collaboration between them. i welcome the introduction in the programme of new priorities which will ensure greater involvement of citizens and businesses. furthermore, i support the additional data-protection safeguards, a stronger emphasis on the re-use and sharing of references and solutions, and enhanced cooperation between member states in order to address the digital divide.
in writing. ‒ ukip is opposed to the very existence of, and to uk participation in, a so-called european parliament. it is therefore against any proposal designed to consolidate the power and position of that entity. there are proposals for legislation contained in the report and ukip always votes against legislation, all of which has the effect of draining sovereign power away from the uk. in addition there are specific proposals on the conduct of elections, which are designed to federalise the whole european election process and to produce the illusion of a bogus eu demos, and which are unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the reform of electoral law in the eu for a number of reasons. i believe the introduction of constituency and member state thresholds to be undemocratic: it clearly disadvantages smaller parties, regional parties and independents. as citizens identify primarily with local, national parties, the inclusion and participation of european political groupings in election campaigns would add an unnecessary and potentially confusing dimension to those campaigns. i also believe that elections are the competency of established national authorities, and that no attempt should be made to create, or move towards the creation of, a single european electoral authority. whilst the report contained some progressive elements, in relation to female representation and extending the franchise, these failed to mitigate its worst excesses, forcing me to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ this report entails significant intrusion into the operation of elections within the member states. it is not for the european union to tell member states how to run their democratic elections. much of this report i would oppose even if it were suggested by my national parliament itself, because it tells political parties that they should choose candidates based upon gender. i fundamentally disagree; candidates should be chosen based upon merit.
in writing. ‒ ukip is opposed to the very existence of, and to uk participation in, a so-called european parliament. it is therefore against any proposal designed to consolidate the power and position of that entity. there are proposals for legislation contained in the report and ukip always votes against legislation, all of which has the effect of draining sovereign power away from the uk. in addition there are specific proposals on the conduct of elections, which are designed to federalise the whole european election process and to produce the illusion of a bogus eu demos, and which are unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ ukip is opposed to the very existence of, and to uk participation in, a so-called european parliament. it is therefore against any proposal designed to consolidate the power and position of that entity. there are proposals for legislation contained in the report and ukip always votes against legislation, all of which has the effect of draining sovereign power away from the uk. in addition there are specific proposals on the conduct of elections, which are designed to federalise the whole european election process and to produce the illusion of a bogus eu demos, and which are unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this attempt to subvert national electoral systems and traditions. it is very important for member states to be able to retain their own voting traditions as they see fit. in the uk our traditional voting day is thursday, and i therefore do not support calls for the election day to be unified across the eu. furthermore i also do not want to see important decisions such as voting age set centrally by the eu, and i see no benefit in the proposed creation of a european electoral authority. while the amendments to the voting threshold do not specifically affect the uk, i do not agree with solving an issue specific to one country via european legislation. i also cannot support the notion that the lisbon treaty provides parliament with the right to choose the president of the european commission, given that it represents an erosion of member state prerogatives and will further politicise the commission. i also disagree with the assertion in the report that greater harmonisation will ‘strengthen the political dimension of european integration’.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which examines ways to make european elections more transparent, visible, fair, and democratic.
in writing. ‒ ukip is opposed to the very existence of, and to uk participation in, a so-called european parliament. it is therefore against any proposal designed to consolidate the power and position of that entity. there are proposals for legislation contained in the report and ukip always votes against legislation, all of which has the effect of draining sovereign power away from the uk. in addition there are specific proposals on the conduct of elections, which are designed to federalise the whole european election process and to produce the illusion of a bogus eu demos, and which are unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the notion of transnational lists for elections to this parliament, and also against the proposed single european constituency. the eu is currently going through a number of parallel crises of a nature never seen before in its history. whilst, as part of the efforts to overcome these crises, it is necessary for the eu institutions and this house to reengage with the citizens, the recommendations contained in this report, if enacted, will do the opposite. democracy must come from the grassroots up, not the other way round. attempts to replace parties of mass membership with european political constructs seem, in my view, destined to fail. mandatory thresholds will result in diminishing diversity. and the continued attempts by the large political groups in the house to gain for themselves a permanent stranglehold on power will only lead to further disengagement with the citizens we are elected to represent. i therefore voted against this report in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip is opposed to the very existence of, and to uk participation in, a so-called european parliament. it is therefore against any proposal designed to consolidate the power and position of that entity. there are proposals for legislation contained in the report and ukip always votes against legislation, all of which has the effect of draining sovereign power away from the uk. in addition there are specific proposals on the conduct of elections, which are designed to federalise the whole european election process and to produce the illusion of a bogus eu demos, and which are unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the i could not support the proposal for the reform of the voting rights for the elections to the european parliament. i voted actively against, for example, the proposal that the european parliament should recommend the introduction of a system whereby men and women would have to alternate regularly on the list of candidates. i am of course in favour of more women in politics, but quotas are not the answer. i also did not vote for the various declarations which aim to establish a single european electoral area. i believe that meps should have as close a relationship as possible with their constituents, and one constituency would not only lead to the opposite, but also to the creation of two categories of meps - the pan-european super-mps and then the others. i liked the proposal to support electronic voting, but overall i think the negative aspects of the proposal outweigh the positive aspects, which is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. ‒ ukip is opposed to the very existence of, and to uk participation in, a so-called european parliament. it is therefore against any proposal designed to consolidate the power and position of that entity. there are proposals for legislation contained in the report and ukip always votes against legislation, all of which has the effect of draining sovereign power away from the uk. in addition there are specific proposals on the conduct of elections, which are designed to federalise the whole european election process and to produce the illusion of a bogus eu demos, and which are unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not see the eu having any authority over national elections in member states. there are many proposals contained in this document which i am concerned will override the democratic institutions of member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for reform of the electoral law of the european union suggests many positive changes to the procedures for electing the european parliament – the nomination of candidates for the presidency of the commission, gender-balanced lists, a vote for 16-year-olds and improved possibilities for voting abroad. however, i voted against the final report as i do not support proposals to introduce a europe-wide constituency and a common european election day. many aspects of the report still need thorough consideration and further evaluation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this resolution because it is wishing to interfere in the function of the member countries when determining the competitiveness of the industry. the resolution is also calling for the commission to have an input into the efficient running of the airports when the uk has one of the most efficient airport operations in the world. furthermore, the resolution is looking at increasing the responsibilities of easa when there is no necessity for this; the caa has already had some regulatory responsibilities passed to easa and further responsibilities must not be taken away.
in writing. ‒ as i have been elected on a mandate of opposition to the european union, i believe that further harmonisation in this field would be contrary to the wishes of my electorate. i note that the aviation industry is a growing sector which has attracted highly skilled and motivated professionals. however, the provisions on employment should be a matter for the member states themselves to determine in order to balance workers’ rights with economic productivity according to their own needs.
in writing. ‒ we have voted against this resolution because it is wishing to interfere in the function of the member countries when determining the competitiveness of the industry. the resolution is also calling for the commission to have an input in the efficient running of the airports when the uk has one of the most efficient airport operations in the world. furthermore, the resolution is looking at increasing the responsibilities of easa when there is no necessity for this; the caa has already had some regulatory responsibilities passed to easa and further responsibilities must not be taken away.
in writing. ‒ we have voted against this resolution because it is wishing to interfere in the function of the member countries when determining the competitiveness of the industry. the resolution is also calling for the commission to have an input in the efficient running of the airports when the uk has one of the most efficient airport operations in the world. furthermore, the resolution is looking at increasing the responsibilities of easa when there is no necessity for this; the caa has already had some regulatory responsibilities passed to easa and further responsibilities must not be taken away.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote on the aviation sector in the eu as the sector is facing strong competition from outside countries. both airline companies and airports are facing an uncertain future. airline companies are facing competition from some state-owned airlines while european airports are struggling to compete with new airports in the third countries which are competing to become major hubs in the aviation world. in light of these difficulties, it is important to examine issues of competition to ensure a playing level field for the sector but it is equally important to closely strongly fight instances of social dumping and precarious contracts.
in writing. ‒ we have voted against this resolution because it is wishing to interfere in the function of the member countries when determining the competitiveness of the industry. the resolution is also calling for the commission to have an input in the efficient running of the airports when the uk has one of the most efficient airport operations in the world. furthermore, the resolution is looking at increasing the responsibilities of easa when there is no necessity for this; the caa has already had some regulatory responsibilities passed to easa and further responsibilities must not be taken away.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for the full integration of airports into the european transport system, and i welcome that call. it should be remembered, however, that this does not just mean connecting large cities to hubs such as heathrow, frankfurt and amsterdam. air transport provides a priceless lifeline from many scottish highland and island communities to places such as aberdeen, inverness and glasgow. in developing european integration, we should aim to be linking small communities to the rest of the world in as few transits as possible. this means encouraging routes from places like the scottish cities to multiple international destinations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls for measures to boost the eu aviation sector and fight unfair competition while upholding high safety and social standards.
in writing. ‒ we have voted against this resolution because it is wishing to interfere in the function of the member countries when determining the competitiveness of the industry. the resolution is also calling for the commission to have an input in the efficient running of the airports when the uk has one of the most efficient airport operations in the world. furthermore, the resolution is looking at increasing the responsibilities of easa when there is no necessity for this; the caa has already had some regulatory responsibilities passed to easa and further responsibilities must not be taken away.
in writing. ‒ we have voted against this resolution because it is wishing to interfere in the function of the member countries when determining the competitiveness of the industry. the resolution is also calling for the commission to have an input in the efficient running of the airports when the uk has one of the most efficient airport operations in the world. furthermore, the resolution is looking at increasing the responsibilities of easa when there is no necessity for this; the caa has already had some regulatory responsibilities passed to easa and further responsibilities must not be taken away.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, because it is aiming to interfere in the activities of member states when determining the competitiveness of the industry. the resolution also calls for the commission to have an input into the efficient running of airports when the uk has one of the most efficient airport operations in the world. furthermore, the resolution is increasing the responsibilities of easa when there is no need for this. the caa has already seen some regulatory responsibilities passed to easa and i do not believe this should continue.
in writing. ‒ i had the opportunity to speak about the future aviation package earlier, and my main concerns about the aviation industry concerned principally the issues in the uk. however, i will take this opportunity to express my support of the joint motion for a resolution from the epp, s&d and alde groups. the s&d was able to strengthen the social dimension in employment in the aviation industry and allowed for the possibility to address precarious employment – zero-hour contracts – that are needlessly exploiting workers.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i believe that trade reduces poverty, empowers women and provides opportunities for our young people. we live in a globalised world and our citizens and consumers want the barriers to trade removed. it is therefore difficult to hide my disappointment that we have, once again, failed to make progress within the wto ahead of the 10th ministerial meeting next month. it appears that this meeting will be something of a damp squib, with a real danger that the parties will not even manage to produce a joint statement following the discussions in nairobi. it is clear that the doha development agenda has failed, yet somehow we must press ahead with the multilateral agenda and the important issues contained within it. as the commissioner mentioned, agricultural issues continue to be the most difficult problems to solve when it comes to international trade agreements. yet it is important to recognise some of the other ambitions that doha was looking to meet, such as efforts towards making it easier for developing countries to gain access to the international trading market, in turn providing real opportunities for economic development. instead, we have to make progress in areas that we are able to agree upon – but it looks likely that this will have to come under the framework of a different agreement. so we need a new reinvigorated agenda at the wto level – one which is not associated with the failures of the past and which can build from the bottom up so that we may look upon the wto as an organisation that works in the interests of its members. until then, parties will be forced to work at the bilateral and plurilateral levels, which will be essential to maintain growth and jobs in this globalised world. within this, the eu must use the influence that it has so that we can push this multilateral agenda forward to achieve real success for all. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– ms mcclarkin, is not this debate an example of how little influence the united kingdom has, bearing in mind that all trade negotiations are currently conducted with the eu trade commissioner, ms malmström, sitting at the front? does this not show that britain would have greater influence in the wider world were we to decide to withdraw from the european union following the referendum?
blue-card answer.– the british people will decide whether they believe they should remain a member of the european union or not very soon and, indeed, if we have those trading powers back, we will be able to do deals ourselves. but the reality is that if we want to work towards trade for all and improve the work for everybody, it will have to be done at the world trade organization (wto) level.
blue-card question.– i noticed during your speech that you spoke about concern about weaker trading partners and developing countries. would you not accept that one of the things that holds back developing countries is tariff controls and blocks from trading blocs such as the eu, as well as the unfair advantages given to the eu by the common agricultural policy? if we had a fairer system and could trade freely, then we could have trade with developing countries, rather than aid as we have now.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, to get one thing in perspective: the european union began as a protectionist construct, it remains a protectionist construct, it will always be a protectionist construct. doha or no doha, the european union is a roadblock to free and freer trade. to give one example, which was just previously touched upon, european protectionism in food production has direct consequences which harm the developing world. first, the eu markets are closed to a greater or lesser extent to the export of agricultural products. secondly, and more damagingly, the european union dumps agricultural over-production, occasioned by its misallocated agricultural subsidies, onto the world market, and the effect of this is that farmers and food growers in the world outside – especially in those countries that have a large primary sector – are severely damaged. the people adversely affected are some of the poorest in the world. this is not fair trade. there are also other consequences. eu protectionism hurts and harms consumers in the european union itself. consumers here have to pay the hiked and inflated european union price for foods and other goods instead of the world price. professor patrick minford and his colleagues at cardiff university have calculated that the cost of this to the uk consumer is 8% of the cost of living. it follows that, on brexit, the cost of living in the uk would be reduced by 8% at least. we may be sure that in other member states the figure would not be dissimilar. and so it is not just for my country: the dissolution of the eu customs union would be a huge plus for the whole world. that, perhaps, is what we should bear in mind when we are discussing the doha agenda. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– firstly, there are, of course, many countries which are not members of the european union, as well as switzerland and norway. but the fact of the matter is that if there are subsidies – and particularly agricultural subsidies – these are much better determined at national level. if they were determined at national level, it is much more probable that the interest of the consumer would be heeded.
mr president, as the commissioner herself has said and other members have pointed out, we should not miss the symbolism of nairobi being the first time that a wto ministerial conference has been held in africa. we should see this as an opportunity to put development firmly back on the doha development round and emphasise, as much as possible, development items during the course of the ministerial conference. firstly, i hope the eu will continue its support for special and differential treatment and put that at the core of some of our debates during the ministerial conference, particularly trying to target the least-developed countries (ldcs) to ensure that they benefit from the opening up of trade. as others have said this afternoon, we all welcome the conclusion of the trade facilitation agreement. we should aim to try and get that signed before the ministerial conference, and i know the commissioner is working on that. i do not pretend it is an easy task, but again, the symbolism of getting that done before nairobi would be vital. we should also (i think it was mr rübig who raised the issue) try to push our member states to deliver on their aid-for-trade commitments. the european union institutions have largely delivered on the commitments made at gleneagles a number of years ago; the member states have almost universally failed to do so. so we need to press them in this regard. finally, although it is not a matter for the wto ministerial conference, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commission for the position it recently took at the wto trips council on the extension of ip exemptions for medicines for ldcs. this is a real contribution to ensuring access to medicines for the poorest countries in the world.
madam president, firstly, i agree with bernd lange that this is a very good agreement in economic terms for the european union and for vietnam and it should see growth in both regions. is the human rights situation in vietnam perfect? no – as other speakers have said, far from it. whether this free trade agreement will help or hinder the human rights situation in vietnam is probably the more important question, and i happen to agree with the commissioner that constructive engagement is the way to improve the human rights situation in vietnam. thanks to this efta, we will now have an opportunity for a robust ongoing human rights dialogue with the vietnamese. i hope we will also see a very effective domestic advisory group set up. that, to my mind, is a crucial point: we have to make sure that we fund a domestic adviser group, involve civil society in vietnam and get regular reports about the situation there, particularly the labour situation. we must make sure that the ilo conventions are being implemented, that trade unions are allowed to operate, and that there are safeguards at the workplace. but we cannot do that if we do not have this fta or the pca. if we are not engaged with vietnam, we will have no basis on which to speak with the vietnamese. so i repeat: good for economics and also potentially good for human rights in vietnam.
madam president, respect for human rights develops; it does not just happen because a country ratifies international agreements or they are bombarded with demands from potential trade partners. human rights evolve, and fostering trade is a vital part of enabling that evolution. asean is the eu’s third largest trading partner and vietnam is growing in importance within asean, with a vibrant economy. so i welcome this agreement, which i believe will lift people out of poverty in vietnam and enable them to engage vigorously in improving their own political and human rights in their own country in good time. i look at human rights sites monitoring vietnam and of course i am dismayed at what i see sometimes. but hectoring and then withdrawing is not the answer. i am pleased to see this agreement finalised. let us engage constructively continuing our dialogue, provide governance assistance and get on with seeing this fta become successful. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
regrettably i did not really understand the beginning of the question, so it is difficult for me to reply.
sorry, madam president, i still do not understand that english.
madam president, i welcome this fta. it has important potential in terms of jobs and growth, not least for the eu in the current context of tpp, but also for vietnam. but it is clear that this potential can only be realised if appropriate measures are taken to maximise positive, and prevent negative, impacts on human rights. vietnam does face significant challenges in this field, whether it is forced evictions of farmers or imprisonment of those seeking better labour rights. therefore, could the commission explain why it is not possible to undertake a proper ex-ante human rights impact assessment so we can understand a roadmap for addressing our concerns and improving the solution? it is also evident that the usual mix of instruments will not do the trick. not only do they have their shortcomings, which have been widely documented; but can we really just blindly transpose this approach onto the most far-reaching fta that has ever been achieved with a developing country? some argue that the commission’s timid approach to human rights is exactly why it is important that under the partnership and cooperation agreement there is a communication mechanism between the european external action service (eeas) and parliament on the implementation of the pca and capacity—building to enhance the settlement of complaints by the affected communities. this is not about trying to undermine the fta or pointing the finger at the vietnamese government. this is about common sense – that prevention is more effective and less expensive than cure – and about casting a successful foundation for a strong, lasting, strategic relationship with one of our key partners in south-east asia, especially in the current geopolitical context.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, as with all european policymaking, i believe our animal welfare policy should be led by science, evidence and practical realities of farming and food production, not driven by emotion and public opinion, no matter how well-meaning it may be. the way to create the best outcomes for the welfare of animals is to have a sensible and workable strategy that is not implemented in a burdensome way for producers. we need to recognise the practical implications that exist for producers and be wary of unintended consequences which can ultimately have a negative impact on animal welfare. for example, the commission’s proposals regarding medicated feed could potentially have implications for pig welfare by delaying the use of medication until the disease has spread and developed. the cost to farmers – or ultimately, of course, to consumers – must be recognised. producers where i come from in the uk, as a whole, were to the forefront in implementing measures such as the sow stall ban, while others dragged their feet. the united kingdom banned sow stalls and certainly lost their competitive advantage at that time. similarly, there is a need for our animal welfare standards to be protected in any trade negotiations. we cannot allow a situation, for example, where imports from third countries have a competitive advantage over those produced within a europe under our high animal welfare standards. bovine tb is a problem which impacts on the welfare of cattle, and the associated restrictions place pressure on farmers and come at a cost to the public purse. the truth is, if member states were to implement the regulations that are in place much better, there would be much better animal welfare.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, this resolution of the animal welfare intergroup, of which i am a vice-chair, is both timely and welcome, and my group wholeheartedly supports its objectives. particularly welcome is the checklist on the existing strategy, where it is noted that only nine out of 19 actions that were called for have so far been implemented by the commission. that is why any new strategy should urgently and loudly call for a comprehensive and clear animal welfare legislative framework law which improves animal welfare standards and does not dilute them. it is a concern of ours that when some people talk of simplification of rules, it is a dilution. what we need is better implementation. there are too many elements of the proposed resolution to talk about in the time allowed, but special mention should be made of calls to embed the sentient status of all animals; the eu—wide ban on mistreatment and suffering of animals; to study the animal health dairy cattle standards against our own and correct any differences found; and finally, to review the transport of animals and the regulations and how they are implemented. animal welfare issues are regularly in the top three subjects in my constituents’ e-mail bag. citizens care about animals and are looking for their parliament to protect them.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, when we are talking about animal welfare in europe we have got a real clash of cultures, haven’t we? because in mediterranean countries they still find it fun to watch bulls fighting one another and bulls being baited. now, you could say: when in rome, do as the romans do, and i might take that attitude. unfortunately, because of the way the cap works, british taxpayers are subsidising this activity. they are subsidising it because they are paying area aid on land that is being used to rear bulls for bullfighting and bull-baiting. i realise that this has been in the legislation – there have been amendments about it – but as yet, as far as i know, there has been no concrete legislation that says british taxpayers’ money must not be used for this – not that i suppose that would ever happen. but i should just warn you that there is a referendum coming up in britain fairly soon on eu membership, and there is nothing that makes europhiles squirm more than being reminded that they, with their taxes, are supporting bull-baiting and bullfighting. now we move on to another subject, and that is wild stray dogs in romania, which are apparently being shot and killed one way or another. that is an animal welfare issue, but i am more concerned about what happens to these dogs once they have been killed in whatever ways they are being killed. are they buried? well that would upset the eu because of the environmental rules about burying dead animals. are they being incinerated? well that will upset all you global warmers because of the co2 that is going into the atmosphere. are they being rendered down with abattoir waste to be spread as meat and bonemeal fertilizer, or are they actually being put into animal rations as a protein element? i mean, i would not put this past anybody, because it goes on in south-east asia. but these dogs carry rabies; we understand about 20% of them have got rabies. that is zoonotic – that means human beings can get it, and those human beings could come to britain because the borders are open. so, what better reason to close the borders than rabies?
madam president, more enforcement in coordination of the regulations that we already have is key to improving the welfare of animals. we know how important the health of livestock is to the success of european farming. it is vital for animal welfare that we continue to support european meat production and do not promote what i call ʽanimal welfare leakage’ by putting our own farmers out of business and ending up with more imports. this does not mean, of course, that there should be no control. mistreatment of animals must be prevented and care standards must be maintained, and indeed improved. issues such as transportation are, of course, best dealt with at a european level, as trucks move across borders in the single market – notwithstanding mr deß’s experience today. but many issues can be dealt with at member state level. many members here have suggested that there is a lot of talk about animal welfare and little action. that is simply not the case. we have the highest standards in the world. let us stop talking ourselves down. we just need to make sure that member state governments enforce them.
madam president, we have the strictest animal welfare rules in the world, but if they are not enforced, they are worthless. therefore, enforcement is key. there is no point in having another animal welfare strategy unless we recognise that the existing rules are widely ignored and that they are often only given lip service in many member state ministries. we see this problem across animal welfare legislation, for example in animal transport rules, where spot checks have shown that the reality is miles away from the legislation. the case of puppy-smuggling is another example: here, existing regulations to prevent unhealthy animals being transported across europe are not being respected and the pet passport scheme is being abused. we do not need new legislation; more new legislation which we cannot enforce will just make a mockery of all animal welfare legislation. we need existing legislation to be properly enforced, and to do this, the commission needs to be much stronger with those reticent member states; we need to share best practices between member states; and we need to foster a culture of animal welfare throughout europe. only by doing this will we reach common standards at the highest level, not at the lowest.
madam president, european citizens are looking to the commission for decisive action to safeguard animal welfare. the new animal welfare strategy should be a starting point to introduce european framework legislation on animal welfare, supported by a one-stop-shop for animal welfare within the commission – the only guarantee that animal welfare issues will be dealt with in a coordinated and efficient manner. animals, as we have heard tonight, are sentient beings, and this principle must underpin the thinking around the new animal welfare strategy. only having realised this basic truth can we address the most pressing animal welfare issues across the eu and beyond: to improve the welfare of farm animals, to end live exports to third countries and to curb the illicit trade in puppies and exotic pets. these, and many other issues, demand attention. it is time for a new and robust strategy.
madam president, subsidiarity would suggest that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the citizen. most issues which have been raised today – however nobly – could be dealt with better by nations themselves. one—size—fits—all laws are not always necessary. for example, member states need to have the power to end live animal imports and exports in their own countries in order to deal with this cruelty. i raise also comments about exotic pets, and particularly the threat that any legislation could have to ornamental fish in the uk, and to thousands of jobs, including some in my constituency which could be affected. finally, i would say that sensible debate is needed. sadly, in the united kingdom we have seen alarmism from the labour party, with the shadow cabinet member responsible having suggested that meat be treated like tobacco, with public health campaigns to stop people eating it. i suspect that with those comments she offended meat eaters and smokers alike.
in writing.– animal welfare is a topic on which constituents from my region are continuously writing me, on issues ranging from addressing badger cull and fox hunting in the uk, over life animal exports, to bull fighting in spain, the situation of stray dogs in romania and whaling in the faroe islands. this proves the trust vested in eu institutions to take action on a topic that is close to people’s hearts. while i acknowledge the important role played by the commission in improving animal welfare over the past years, crucial steps remain to be taken. the recognition that animals are sentient beings should be the basis of any effective piece of legislation aiming to protect the wellbeing of animals. yet the majority of existing acts fail to recognise this key principle. and while the adoption by the commission of a strategy on the protection and welfare of animals 2012 - 2015 has been a crucial step in improving animal welfare, it is disappointing that only 9 out of the 19 actions contained in it have been implemented. i count on the commission to build on progress it has made with a strategy for 2016-2020 that investigates why this has been the case and draws lessons from failure as well as success.
mr president, i find the concepts of this report deeply worrying, not least the usual display of neo-colonialism, with calls for the european union to be given its own un security council seat. in britain the apologists maintain a lie that the eu is primarily about trade and economics, yet this subject highlights the ambition to make the eu a global power. we have calls for eu common positions on security council items and for member states on the council to act in the interests of the eu’s common security and foreign policy. this only expands the british people’s deep mistrust of the eu, and i feel safe in asserting that this attack, at the very heart of our own ability to define british foreign policy and security, is completely unacceptable. the time has come for the british people to vote to leave behind this 19th century answer to a 20th century problem and reaffirm our identity as a genuinely influential global trading nation. the world is our oyster, but inside the european union, britain’s future is as a clam.
mr president, there is no more persecuted and yet more disregarded minority in the world than christians. over 90 countries ban or restrict christian belief, many of them in the middle east. for centuries christians have lived, worked and prayed in the middle east. indeed, that region was the birthplace of christianity. yet since the collapse of secular leaders in the region, islamists like isis have filled the vacuum with a toxic and intolerant campaign against christians. we have seen ancient churches and monasteries looted and converted to mosques. in isis territory, christian women and girls are sold in sex slave markets, whilst male christians are forced to sign contracts that officially relegate them to second—class status. we also see the grotesque scenes of gay men and women being thrown off rooftops and kicked to death if they survive the fall. the silence of so many lgbt groups on this issue is puzzling. this hatred of gay men that is common in isis-style islamic extremism is now spreading to my country, where gay men and women are frequently demonised in radical sermons. violent attacks on gay men and women are a serious concern and totally unacceptable. east london, in particular, is a dangerous place for gay men. i hope whoever wins the london mayoral race – hopefully peter whittle, himself a gay man – will make tackling this problem a top priority.
mr president, last week saw a significant agreement made by the two largest political parties in the north of ireland and with the irish and british governments. the six counties’ institutions are the only viable platform to give protection to the working poor and those on benefits. last week, however, did not see the british government address breaches of its article 2 obligations under the european convention on human rights (echr) – the right to life – which the echr found that britain had violated during the conflict in ireland. the british government has covered up for state actors, their agents, the british army, police and the political institutions which colluded in countless murders, and to this day the british government continues to exercise a national security veto to conceal the role it played in collusion in ireland. the council of europe’s commissioner for human rights, mr muižnieks, must return to belfast to investigate britain’s role in the conflict and its human rights abuses and to bring the british government to book for acting with impunity, and to work with the families to get full disclosure of information for the victims and the families.
mr president, this week the first snow fell at home as autumn rapidly moves to winter. for many people this brings the added dread of extra energy costs. energy efficiency and renewables are a key means of ensuring that energy poverty is reduced long term. while much progress has been made on improving efficiency and reducing their cost, government support schemes remain crucial. the market alone cannot deliver this crucial investment, particularly for those living in social housing and the private rental sector. that is why the recent decision by the tories to slash support for solar and onshore wind is such a deplorable act. with the right legal framework, solar power alone could generate gbp 25.6 billion for the uk economy and support over 8 000 full—time skilled jobs – a vital investment in our future, putting money into local communities like my own. the uk government should – and must – reverse its short—term and short—sighted decision.
mr president, i think this is what i would term a ‘goldilocks’ approach to things. it is not too hot, it is not too cold, it seems to occupy that middle ground, and in the middle ground you can disappoint people on either side. i think right now there are many interesting things within this: trying to move ourselves away from dependence upon russian imports, so the pcis are vital – i think that is important; the concept of interconnectivity at a regional level – not pan-european in one step, but rather regional, growing from the ground and lifting it up: that is a huge step forward, and i think that will help us make significant progress. emissions abatement is also something we must look at, and into that we have to consider ccs – carbon capture and storage – and, indeed, carbon capture and usage. those two concepts need to be integral. i am very struck just now that we must make sure our energy mix works and delivers. we must again, however, be looking at how to create a level playing field for all our sources of energy, and that will mean, i believe, looking at fossil fuel subsidies as well. there is much to thank from this report but still much again to be done.
mr president, we seem to have developed a collective psychosis over electricity generation in europe. germany is building coal—fired power stations while we in my country, britain, are closing them down. germany is closing its nuclear fleet and france is cutting back, while we in britain scramble to find chinese funding for new nuclear capacity. but this is nothing compared to the disaster of our over—commitment to unreliable, intermittent and expensive renewables. we have forced up prices, undermined competitiveness and driven energy—intensive businesses out of europe altogether, taking their jobs and their investment with them. as our colleague antonio tajani has said, we are creating an industrial massacre in europe. the issues we are debating today – more flexibility, more interconnectors – may have merit in themselves, but compared to the crisis of competitiveness, we are merely fiddling at the margin. we are debating the wrong issues. as we say in my country: we are barking up the wrong tree.
blue-card question.– i notice that you are complaining about high energy prices and you said that was due to a fragmented europe, and you rail against subsidies to coal. well, surely one of the main reasons for high energy prices is vast subsidies to renewables and not allowing a free market in energy when – certainly in britain – we have massive amounts of coal that could be dug up and used. but instead of that, we are having to hit green targets and not dig it up but, in fact, actually to shut down coal production. surely you reduce prices by giving the market more free rein, rather than following theories about global warming?
mr president, if properly implemented, the energy union strategy will benefit all eu member states and citizens, who crucially need to be placed at centre stage, especially the energy-poor. i welcome the first stage of the energy union report published by the commission last week, as i am particularly worried by the current situation in the uk. the state of the energy union highlights that the uk is failing to hit a 2013 interim target for renewable energy and is in serious danger of failing to meet the binding 2020 target. this is really unacceptable. the report also rightly claims that the uk needs to assess whether their policies and tools are sufficient and effective in meeting their renewable energy objectives. i am sure i am not alone in thinking that currently they are not. the uk government policy on renewable energy is regressive, and there is a real danger that the uk will end up buying renewable energy from other countries, rather than growing the green jobs that the uk and our young people so desperately need. the uk government urgently needs to modify its strategy and develop policy measures to promote energy efficiency – the first fuel – and renewables. this is precisely what the energy union is about: building a new, clean and secure energy system which is affordable to all eu citizens.
mr president, the best way to ensure energy security for the whole of europe and the lowest prices for our citizens is a properly integrated gas and electricity market. i want consumers and businesses in my constituency to be able to buy their energy from any company in the eu. continued investment in infrastructure is key to securing sustainable and low-cost energy across the eu. i was pleased to see the commission approve a number of infrastructure projects within the report, particularly new interconnection capacity between the united kingdom and ireland, france and belgium. i urge the commissioner to maintain his focus on infrastructure investment and give investors the regulatory certainty they need. improving inter-connection also increases energy security. i want the european gas market to be so well connected that even if mr putin turns off the gas taps, we can supply the whole of the continent, businesses can keep going and no one will go cold in the winter.
mr president, we in ukip reject a revision of the damaging eu ets system. we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. its policy has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment to outside the eu. we oppose this proposal as we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal is a solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by industries in europe, and britain in particular. it is now clear that the eu’s obsessive green energy policy, together with a lack of regulatory coherence, has created great difficulties for all energy industries in europe. europe needs to become competitive – a strange word for you lot – but competitive, improve its resources, create jobs and increase productivity. currently, unaffordable investment policy is damaging british industry and economy. brussels must recognise that its energy policy has failed to deliver legal certainty to investors. whilst threatening the free market system of investment and production, further eu illogical over-regulation will not promote the industrialisation of europe; it will no doubt announce the end of it.
blue-card question.– would you agree with me that professor james lovelock, the great grandfather of all the greens, has reluctantly come round to the idea that we must have nuclear energy as a stopgap before we move onto other things? would you not agree with me that perhaps he was right? i know that the lefties have given him the same treatment as the late trotsky (who they seem to have fallen out with as well), but surely professor lovelock was right, was he not?
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and shadows. the european insurance sector has trillions of euros worth of assets under its management, making it the backbone of our financial industry and an important contributor to gdp. the insurance distribution directive (idd) is, along with solvency ii, just one piece of the puzzle of updated regulations aimed at strengthening european standards and encouraging cross-border purchases. a patchwork of national regulations, with some governments gold-plating the measures and others implementing the bare minimum necessary for compliance, has been the case across europe for some years now. however, the agreement reached on idd includes substantial achievements in consumer protection, notably on information for consumers, a ban on time practices and the prevention of conflicts of interest. this agreement includes substantial achievements in consumer protection, which was my priority and my group’s from the get-go. the implementation of this updated regulation will ensure consumers understand the risks, costs and features of all insurance products and that those selling them possess the relevant professionalism and competence. part of a review by the commission in 2008 found that a lack of transparency around remuneration was resulting in too many commission-driven conflicts of interest in the market. the new directive requires member states to lay down rules ensuring the intermediaries, insurers and reinsurers do not remunerate or assess the performance of employees in a way that conflicts with their duty to act in the best interests of consumers. also, before a contract is concluded, an intermediary must disclose to customers the nature and basis – such as a fee, commission, or combination thereof – of the remuneration. this is a huge increase in transparency for the consumer. insurance and reinsurance distribution can be carried out by insurers and reinsurers as well as intermediaries. so the scope of this regulation has been widened to reflect that. but in specified circumstances, such as ancillary insurance intermediaries, those whose principal activities are not insurance related are excluded from the scope. another important achievement of idd is ensuring that sellers’ professional qualifications match the complexity of the products they sell. included in the directive is a requirement for at least 15 hours of professional training or development per year, although as part of our compromise with the council, member states may allow evidence of continuous training and development through successful completion of an exam. under the existing directive, there will be requirements to disclose information to customers before a contract is concluded. so to remain competitive, there is a need for innovation – particularly digital innovation – and this will ultimately lead to huge potential for the provision of cross-border insurance sales. the adoption of idd is an important step towards this, and i look forward to parliament endorsing it during the plenary session.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the insurance distribution directive will enhance consumer protection, increase competition and create a more level playing field between insurance and investment products. i am pleased that we have agreed upon a principle-based approach giving member states flexibility to implement tougher rules where they see fit to do so. this is the most sensible way to go about legislating: allowing companies room to ensure they give consumers the best outcomes rather than worrying about tick-box style exercises. the product information document is a good example of this. we have been able to strip out many of the over-prescriptive one-size-fits-all requirements, instead focusing on the information that can actually benefit the consumer. it was vital to protect consumers’ interest in the wide variety of tied insurance products that currently save them time and money. i am pleased that consumers in my country, for example, will still be able to choose a bank account that includes travel insurance, should they wish to do so. consumers will also benefit from a move towards aligning insurance distribution more closely with the rules laid out in mifid ii in order to create a level playing field between insurance and investment products. overall, i am pleased at the final outcome of this report, and i look forward to seeing a positive outcome from its implementation.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, within this chamber and within the commission there are people who have genuinely good intentions in trying to create a framework where there is positive transparency in regulations and decency in relation to the protection of consumers in insurance products. they all come together around a philosophy that there should be a single market with a single rule book and with a single idea that every one thing is exactly the same. unfortunately, that was a philosophy of the 1940s and the 1950s, and nowadays it is fully recognised that, when you put rules together in one bundle, it only helps the large institutions – the major corporates who have the funding of the large compliance offices and regulators. you always put at depth and in problems the smaller and medium-sized businesses, and this directive will do that again.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk is not part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical repeal, although sadly it is unlikely to cut the regulatory burden as the relevant acts were already obsolete.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk is not part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk is not part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk is not part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk is not part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ this refit proposal relates to certain provisions of the schengen acquis, to which the united kingdom does not subscribe. as such, the uk will not be bound by this. therefore, whilst i welcome the repeal of this obsolete measure, as previously on justice and home affairs matters which do not pertain to the uk, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ these refit proposals relate to certain provisions of the schengen acquis, to which the uk does not subscribe. as such, the uk will not be bound by them. therefore, whilst i welcome the repeal of obsolete measures, in accordance with our long-standing position on jha matters which do not pertain to the uk, i will abstain.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the areas of freedom, security and justice, which aims to revoke measures that are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in that context it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts belonging to the schengen acquis are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts, even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ these acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. therefore, for reasons of legal certainty and in order to bring acts in the area of freedom, security and justice in line with the lisbon treaty, i voted in favour of repealing these acts.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in that context it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts belonging to the schengen acquis are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts, even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that, in addition to continuously adopting new legislative standards, the european parliament also committed itself at this meeting to repealing acts that are no longer necessary. i believe that this imaginary window of time devoted to the revision of eu legislation will be repeated in our subsequent discussions.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as it repeals european union acts.
in writing. ‒ this co-decision decision makes sense within the commission’s policy on regulatory fitness and cutting down on unnecessary parts of the body of eu law. the repeal of this act was not politically motivated, and i am glad to see that it was passed unanimously in committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. a number of acts adopted in recent decades have exhausted all their effects. they are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. for reasons of legal certainty it is necessary to revoke the measures in question in order to bring acts in the area of freedom, security and justice in line with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ as the uk is outside of the schengen area and this proposal does not impact the uk in any way, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical repeal, although sadly it is unlikely to cut the regulatory burden as the relevant acts were already obsolete.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ this refit proposal relates to certain provisions of the schengen acquis, to which the united kingdom does not subscribe. as such, the uk will not be bound by this. therefore, whilst i welcome the repeal of this obsolete measure, as previously on justice and home affairs matters which do not pertain to the uk, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ these refit proposals relate to certain provisions of the schengen acquis, to which the uk does not subscribe. as such, the uk will not be bound by them. therefore, whilst i welcome the repeal of obsolete measures, in accordance with our long-standing position on jha matters which do not pertain to the uk, i will abstain.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to revoke measures that are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in that context it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and belonging to the schengen acquis, are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts, even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ whilst this report is primarily technical in nature, it notes that the uk took the decision to withdraw from police and judicial cooperation. at a time when international cooperation in combatting criminal behaviour is increasingly important, it is shameful that this decision was taken.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ these acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. therefore, for reasons of legal certainty and in order to bring acts in the area of freedom, security and justice in line with the lisbon treaty, i voted in favour of repealing these acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in that context it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and belonging to the schengen acquis, are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts, even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ as i said in the previous point, i was very pleased to see that today we are not only adopting new standards, but that the european parliament has finally decided to repeal acts that are already superfluous in the eu legal order. let's hope this isn't a one-off, but that we continue to plow through the imaginary legislative jungle.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as it repeals european union acts.
in writing. ‒ this is the second of three instruments which we voted to repeal. just like the previous one which was more generally titled ʽrepealing certain acts from the schengen acquisʼ (a8-0250/2015), it was not politically motivated and makes sense in legislative terms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. a number of acts adopted in recent decades have exhausted all their effects. they are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. for reasons of legal certainty it is necessary to revoke the measures in question in order to bring acts in the area of freedom, security and justice in line with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ as the uk is outside of the schengen area and this proposal does not impact the uk in any way, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers schengen (which the uk isn’t part of), ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical repeal, although sadly it is unlikely to cut the regulatory burden as the relevant acts were already obsolete.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ this refit proposal relates to certain provisions of the schengen acquis, to which the united kingdom does not subscribe. as such, the uk will not be bound by this. therefore, whilst i welcome the repeal of this obsolete measure, as previously on justice and home affairs matters which do not pertain to the uk, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ these refit proposals relate to certain provisions of the schengen acquis, to which the uk does not subscribe. as such, the uk will not be bound by them. therefore, whilst i welcome the repeal of obsolete measures, in accordance with our long-standing position on jha matters which do not pertain to the uk, i will abstain.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to revoke measures that are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in that context it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have become obsolete because their content has been taken up by successive acts, even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ these acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. therefore, for reasons of legal certainty and in order to bring acts in the area of freedom, security and justice in line with the lisbon treaty, i voted in favour of repealing these acts.
in writing. ‒ improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. in that context it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve any purpose. a number of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have become obsolete because their content has been taken up by successive acts, even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. thirdly, i am pleased that the number of legislative standards in force in the area of police and judicial cooperation will be reduced by nine standards after today. let us not hesitate to look for what is no longer needed in all areas of eu legislation in the future, and at the same time to fight for the simplification of the entire eu legal order.
in writing. ‒ although the measures to repeal old eu legislation only covers police and judicial measures which the uk government has already opted out of in 2014, ukip will always vote to repeal eu laws. the only people that should create laws are democratically elected and accountable national governments, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as it repeals european union acts.
in writing. ‒ this is the third and final of three instruments that have been repealed today as part of the commission’s policy on regulatory fitness. all of these acts no longer have any legal relevance and have either been replaced with more up-to-date legal acts or are temporary in their very nature, hence none of them have been politically motivated and it makes a lot of sense to have these aspects removed from eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. a number of acts adopted in recent decades have exhausted all their effects. they are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts. for reasons of legal certainty it is necessary to revoke the measures in question in order to bring acts in the area of freedom, security and justice in line with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ as the uk is outside of the schengen area and this proposal does not impact the uk in any way, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. – while we have reservations about the eu representing the member states in certain capacities, we supported this report with the view that bluefin fish stocks will be better protected from international iuu fishing with the eu as a full member of ccsbt amongst other members like japan and south korea, who have a poor record when it comes to sustainability and overexploitation of stocks.
in writing. ‒ this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. ‒ this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. ‒ this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. – this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. – this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which concerns authorisation of the exchange of letters between the eu and the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, (ccsbt). the signing of this instrument of international law will allow the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt extended commission, having enjoyed cooperating non-member status since 2006. the european union, in accordance with its commitments under the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, has been cooperating very actively with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation that the european union accede to the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna because i strongly believe that conservation and efforts to maintain our ever-dwindling animal populations are integral to the survival of our planet. with our membership i believe that we will be in a better position to protect this fish population, and that this will have a knock-on effect for conservation elsewhere in the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this further step to improve the european union’s role to advance marine conservation. already this month in the mediterranean there has been international agreement to maintain the bluefin tuna recovery plan, but i hope the eu will back efforts from the worldwide fund for nature to improve traceability for this species everywhere, which remains an obstacle to the eradication of illegal fishing. as far as the southern bluefin tuna is concerned, it has become a victim of the international popularity of sushi, a single bluefin tuna selling for no less than usd 175 000 in a japanese fish market. pound for pound, it has been said to be as valuable as silver. our efforts are not to destroy the trade but to return it to one of sustainable fishing. i welcome the recent commitment of the european commissioner on fisheries mr vella to close loopholes which allow for tuna overfishing, and i hope he – and we – can use this new european union role to help us to do so.
in writing. – this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. my fellow meps and i therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as eu membership in the ccsbt extended commission will promote consistency in the union’s conservation approach across oceans and reinforce its commitment to the long—term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources globally.
in writing. ‒ the european union must remain very active with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i welcome this cooperation on bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. ‒ this involves the eu signing an international convention intended to be signed by states. we therefore oppose it, not because we do not care about the tuna – we care very much and want numbers to grow – but because this is another instance of the eu behaving like a state. what this does is to give the eu a vote in a convention in which voting is the prerogative of full members who are nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it involves the eu signing an international convention which should be signed by nation states, not the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation that the european union accede to the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna because i strongly believe that conservation and efforts to maintain our ever dwindling animal populations is integral to the survival of our planet. with the membership i believe that we will be in a better position to protect this fish population and this will have a knock-on effect for conservation elsewhere in the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which will allow the eu to become a full member of the extended commission of the ccsbt. i welcome eu efforts to ensure international conservation measures are complied with: these measures are essential to protecting stocks of southern bluefin tuna and making sure it does not become endangered.
mr president, completing the single market in services means two very different things. most people would understand it to mean free trade in services. if you can sell a product in one member state, it should be equally available in other member states. in other words, mutual product recognition just like we have for traded goods. but, of course, that is not what is contained in this report. what is contained here is an idea for a common regulatory structure where, instead of simply enabling more free circulation of services, we are laying down rules on consumer protection, etc. that must be evenly applied across all member states. we thereby raise barriers to entry and we create a more regulated, more restricted, and tighter market than we would otherwise have. this has been the fundamental flaw in the european market model right from the beginning: instead of extending consumer choice, we restrict it for the sake of vested interests and established producers. in britain we want a common market – we do not want a common regulatory structure. that is why i hope my countrymen will vote to leave.
mr president, this report does call for the level of consumer protection to be raised, and of course i commend that. but it only does so within the context of reducing the need for national measures, reducing the ability of national governments to take their own decisions on matters such as this. it is designed to increase the scope of firms that are covered by eu regulation and by the eiopa. so i have a problem with it fundamentally for that reason. this is something which would be better done at member state level than by the european union. but i have another problem with it, which is that it gives the commission power to issue delegated acts; it gives it power, effectively, for legislation to be created without it ever coming back through this place. so it will be the unelected commission, not the elected parliament, that takes decisions on this in future, which is fundamentally wrong in my view.
in writing. ‒ whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. – whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ whilst i voted against this report in the committee vote before trilogues began, many of the problematic elements were resolved during trilogues, with outcomes including fewer prescriptive requirements on the content of product information documents and much more proportionate requirements for professional development than the originally proposed 15 hours per year. i therefore voted in favour of the trilogue outcome.
in writing. – whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is crucial consumers understand the risks, costs and features of all insurance products. it is also important that those selling insurance have relevant knowledge and competence. by ending the fragmentation of insurance rules across europe we can help foster cross-border sales and build on the single market.
in writing. ‒ i support this legislation as it ensures consumers understand the risks, costs and features of all insurance products. those selling insurance will also be required to have relevant knowledge and competence. by ending the fragmentation of insurance rules across europe it should also help foster cross-border sales and build on the single market.
in writing. ‒ whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ this proposal will strengthen consumers’ rights in the field of insurance products. i welcome the changes and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. – whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation as it ensures consumers understand the risks, costs and features of all insurance products. those selling insurance will also be required to have relevant knowledge and competence. by ending the fragmentation of insurance rules across europe it should also help foster cross-border sales and build on the single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. the main objective of this recast is to harmonise national provisions concerning insurance distribution, and, since that activity is carried out across the union, this new directive should be based on article 53(1) and article 62 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the form of a directive is appropriate in order to enable the implementing provisions in the areas covered by the directive to be adjusted, as necessary, to any existing specificities of the particular market and legal system in each member state. this directive should also aim at coordinating national rules concerning access to the activity of insurance and reinsurance distribution. however, the directive is aimed at minimum harmonisation and should therefore not preclude member states from maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions in order to protect customers, provided that such provisions are consistent with union law, including this directive.
in writing. ‒ whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ i personally welcome more sophisticated regulation in the field of insurance intermediation. i believe that the proposed regulation will lead to greater consumer protection without at the same time burdening the market with excessive bureaucracy. for this reason, i support the report.
in writing. ‒ whilst the legislation calls for the level of consumer protection to be raised, it does so only to reduce the need for varying national measures. it increases the scope of firms covered by eu regulation and the powers of eiopa and, although it reduces the regulatory burden for smes selling travel and car rental insurance, it gives the commission more powers to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it gives the commission more power to issue delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ this legislation ensures that consumers understand the risks, costs and features of all insurance products, and generally substantially improves the way insurance products are sold. companies and individuals selling insurance will be required to have particular knowledge and competence relevant to the industry. i would also add that by ending the fragmented rules for insurance across the eu, it should also help create cross-border sales of the best insurance products and further aid the completion of the single market in this aspect.
in writing. ‒ i support this legislation as it ensures consumers understand the risks, costs and features of all insurance products. those selling insurance will also be required to have relevant knowledge and competence. by ending the fragmentation of insurance rules across europe it should also help foster cross-border sales and build on the single market.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this agreement on the ‘insurance distribution directive’. these new rules will cover general insurance products, including car insurance and also life insurance and they will ensure clearer information and greater choice for consumers when buying insurance products. conservative meps have worked hard to ensure that this legislation will deliver clear advantages for consumers, whilst minimising the burdens on insurance retailers.
in writing. ‒ this is a vital directive that i support wholeheartedly. i support it because it ensures consumers understand the risks, costs and features of all insurance products. it is vital that those taking out products of this nature are aware of all of the relevant information to allow them to make an informed decision that is suitable for them. those selling insurance will also be required to have relevant knowledge and competence. this is a vital protection not only for the consumer, but for the industry, to ensure that the industry and those it employs are not brought into disrepute by those who would exploit the vulnerable. by ending the fragmented insurance rules across europe it should also help foster cross-border sales and build on the single market and facilitate transnational trade and co-operation within the european union.
mr president, i am pleased to vote for this report calling for a real commitment from member states to tackle child poverty and reduce social inequalities. across the eu, one in four children are living in poverty, and in my own constituency of london this increases to a shocking 37%. many meps in this house were proud to support the report’s call for a child guarantee fund for each child to have access to free healthcare, childcare and education, as well as decent housing and adequate nutrition. tomorrow in the uk parliament, the conservative government will pursue further its shameful plans to cut in-work social security and will push an estimated 640 000 more children in london into poverty next year. in contrast, under labour governments before 2010, the number of children living in absolute poverty fell substantially. i and my colleagues will therefore continue to fight for child poverty to be eradicated everywhere.
mr president, my generation has seen the most severe fall in world poverty in human history. the number of people in severe poverty as defined and measured by the united nations has fallen by two thirds over the last 25 years. the sharpest drops have been in africa and asia. and what has fuelled that extraordinary and happy story? free trade: the integration of these markets into the global markets and the naked pursuit of profit by mobile phone companies and others bringing investment to these regions. i hate to break this to you in this house, but it was not caused by a vote on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty: we have not contributed a jot or a tittle to these happy falls in global poverty. the best thing we can do in this chamber is to release the genius of a free people. all we have to do is stop regulating, stop interfering and stand aside.
mr president, it is a sign of the times that, in a report focusing on the very important issue of inequality and child poverty, we are yet again debating an issue for which national governments should have primary responsibility. member states, their authorities and their local representatives are best placed to identify where improvements can and must be made to ensure that each of their citizens has a fair and equal stake in society. it does not need europe to dictate this. that said, there are a number of conclusions that can be drawn from the text of this report. i hold a balanced view on how to drum out inequalities and improve quality of life for everyone. we believe that, on the one hand, we in the united kingdom as a nation are blessed and well equipped to provide proportionate, effective and accessible welfare benefits to those in our society who need them most; incentives for those who want to make the transition to the workplace; and protection for the most vulnerable. on the other hand, we feel a driving economic growth and creating jobs is the key to raising the quality of life for all.
mr president, you may believe in a high level of public services and a high tax economy; you may oppose privatisation; you may support wealth redistribution and income redistribution; and you may take a view that, fundamentally, universal benefits are better than means-tested benefits. those are all positions which many people hold. but to my mind, it is fundamentally and morally wrong to misuse the very serious issue of child poverty as a vehicle to push these left—wing policies. i personally feel that there is far more that we should do, as a nation, within the united kingdom to tackle child poverty. my problem with this report, however, was that it had so much content on issues that are so different to the issue of child poverty. therefore i could not support the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this very progressive report, which was authored by my gue/ngl colleague. as a result of the economic crisis and the austerity measures that have been imposed, many social indicators have deteriorated, including the level of child poverty in europe. between 2008 and 2012 the number of children at risk of poverty in the eu rose by almost one million. by 2013, one in four children in the eu was living at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this report understands child poverty as a multidimensional phenomenon, which needs to have a multidimensional solution. the solutions proposed in this report are based on policies that promote access to universal, public, free and quality education, health and social security services, promoted by member states to children and their families. the proposals also guarantee cultural inclusion, democratic participation, nutrition and adequate housing. most importantly, this report acknowledges that child poverty cannot be viewed in isolation from the broader family and community context that children are raised in. as a result, the solutions proposed deal with tackling unemployment, promoting job security, parenting support and public development of social-educative networks.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ whilst i recognise the urgent need to combat inequalities, including child poverty, i do not consider it a competence of the eu to instruct member states on how best to deliver policies that are tailored to match the needs of people throughout the uk. i recognise the potential value of the eu as a means to focus attention on the need for action, and for brokering exchanges of advice and assistance for those member states that need it. this report calls for too many initiatives which go beyond what the role of eu should be.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ child poverty remains a problem in my constituency of the west midlands, as in the rest of the uk. uk government policies, however, perpetuate situations where poverty needlessly affects young people. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. i supported this report, which calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which are causing child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it promotes labour laws that guarantee – amongst other things – a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreement, which will provide greater security for families and help us fight precarious employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because child poverty in my constituency remains a problem and the tories continue to be bent on maintaining a situation where poverty needlessly affects young people. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. the report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which are causing child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it promotes labour laws that guarantee – amongst other things – a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreement, which will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ i represent london, where more than half a million children are living below the poverty line. worryingly, levels of in-work poverty have grown. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. this report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the root causes of child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it also promotes labour laws which include a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreements. this will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment.
in writing. ‒ once again i am forced to speak regretting that conservative and ukip meps from my region have ignored social need in our constituency, but to say that i am proud labour has voted for european action for social justice – here specifically to combat child poverty. more than 30% of children in great yarmouth, luton, norwich and peterborough are trapped in poverty, according to the centre for research in social policy. why do the other parties vote against setting the aim of guaranteeing those children better healthcare, education, childcare, decent housing and adequate nutrition – and setting up a small european union fund to pump prime local actions needed to support this? this is also a report which promotes employment laws that guarantee a statutory minimum wage and collective agreements, which provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment. that is about combating poverty at its roots. the truth is that the conservatives and ukip put their ideological hatred of europe before the love we should all feel for our children. britain’s ʽsave the childrenʼ asked us to vote for this report. i did. labour did. it is for others to explain why they refused to do so.
in writing. ‒ this report’s call for member states to make a real commitment to developing policies to fight child poverty is timely. in the united kingdom we currently have a right—wing tory government fully intent on slashing millions of pounds from welfare and public bodies. these ideologically—driven cuts are harming families across scotland and the uk and will only result in the already horrendous child poverty statistics increasing.
in writing. – i abstained on this non-legislative and non—binding report because my fellow meps and i do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. the report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which are causing child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it also promotes labour laws that guarantee a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreement, which will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment.
in writing. ‒ under the un convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the right to education, healthcare services, housing, leisure and a balanced diet. yet in europe things look rather different. according to eurostat, about 26 million children (anyone under 18) were at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2014. this represents 27.7% of all children in the eu. this is a disgrace for our society.
in writing. ‒ british conservatives voted against this report. while agreeing that ending inequalities and child poverty is essential, we do not agree that a top—down eu blueprint is the most appropriate solution. conservatives do not support binding eu targets, nor do we support calls for the eu to interfere in areas where there is no eu competence, including the provision of social welfare, housing and the financing of public services. conservatives firmly believe in the principle of subsidiarity but agree that there is a role for the eu to provide a platform for member states to exchange best practice. we recognise the potential value of the eu as a means to focus attention on the need for action, and for brokering exchanges of advice and assistance for those member states that need it. member states should be encouraged to work towards the goal of ending child poverty by, for example, taking policy measures that will support families; improve living standards and prevent children in poverty from becoming adults in poverty by raising their education attainment. how the member states achieve such goals should be left up to the member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report because we do not oppose actions to tackle the very serious issue regarding child poverty. however, we do oppose calling for any more eu initiatives and interference as the eu is completely undemocratic and the only people that should decide how we tackle child poverty should be our own elected government, not bureaucrats in brussels. the eu’s own policy on this is a failure, as they have admitted they are very unlikely to hit their own target by 2020 on poverty and social exclusion. also, if the uk didn’t pay £55 million a day to the eu, we could do so much more to help children who are in poverty. the eu is one of the problems, not the solution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote. i do not wish to see the eu get involved in this area, but i do recognise the importance of ending child poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because child poverty in my constituency remains a problem and the tories continue to be bent on maintaining a situation where poverty needlessly affects young people. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. the report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which are causing child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it promotes labour laws that guarantee – amongst other things – a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreement, which will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as child poverty in my constituency remains a problem and the tories continue to be bent on maintaining a situation where poverty needlessly affects young people. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. the report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which are causing child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it promotes labour laws that guarantee – amongst other things – a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreement, which will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because child poverty remains a key problem in wales and the uk more generally as 28 per cent of children across the country grow up in relative poverty. however, this problem exists across the eu and needs to be tackled. i therefore welcome a report at a european level, particularly as the tories continue to maintain a situation where poverty needlessly affects young people across the uk. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life for all, but especially for the most vulnerable in society our society. children need to grow up in an environment where they are giving a decent chance in life. this report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which are causing child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it promotes labour laws that guarantee – amongst other things – a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreement, which will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment.
in writing. ‒ more than 1 in 4 children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu, which is a total of 26 million+ minors. children living in poverty are at a higher risk of poor health, are more likely not to finish school, experience worse relationships with their peers and consequently are unable to reach their full potential in life. as a children’s rights champion and co-founder of the parliamentary children’s rights intergroup, this report was of particular importance for me. child poverty in my nw england constituency and across the uk remains a problem; the tories continue to pursue austerity policies that promulgate poverty and have a disproportionate effect on young people. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. the report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which cause child poverty, and increase the scope of social support for children. it promotes labour laws that guarantee, amongst other things, collective agreements and a statutory adequate minimum wage which will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because child poverty in my constituency remains a problem and the conservative government has not done enough to help the young people disproportionately affected by their policies. labour meps have always championed a better quality of life, especially for the most vulnerable in society. the report calls for a real commitment from member states to tackle the factors which are causing child poverty and increase the scope of social support for children. it also promotes labour laws that guarantee a statutory adequate minimum wage and collective agreement, which will provide greater security for families and fight precarious employment.
mr president, the premise behind this report is false. the premise is that the best way to bring marginalised communities into the mainstream is through government action and government spending. i would say the opposite actually: where trade unites, politics divide. taking money from one place to give it to another stirs up conflicts and disputes, and encourages recipients to start arranging their affairs – consciously or subconsciously – around receipt of the subsidy instead of through their own efforts. actually, the best way to integrate people is by allowing them to trade freely, one with another, through contract, without intervention. there is no better system than the market, as milton friedman once pointed out, for bringing together people who might not otherwise like each other. the opposite is true: that the free market is some kind of atomised individualistic system. there is no other system ever devised by human intelligence that so encourages empathy, that so encourages you to put yourself in the shoes of somebody else, as one where you have to rely for your own welfare on the custom of the people around you.
mr president, i welcome this report, which focuses on ensuring that cohesion policy benefits communities that are marginalised for a variety of reasons and in a variety of ways. in northern ireland, the structural funds have for consecutive programming periods assisted victims of terrorism in my constituency who have historically faced physical, psychological and social barriers to employment, training and inclusion. this has included peace and the esf. at no stage, therefore, should we rest on our laurels when it comes to ensuring that this funding continues to improve peoples’ lives. in northern ireland in the current programming period, the managing authority, del, has shown complete disregard for the community, voluntary and women’s sectors in the implementation of the esf, restricting the qualifications they can provide, the tutors they can employ and placing barriers before those who can enrol. these policies ignore the value of community provision and the long-standing benefits of the esf for marginalised communities. it is high time that the european commissioner reminded our minister of this fact.
mr president, as the only british parliamentarian from a romany background, i am proud to reaffirm my own gypsy heritage. i support roma gypsy traveller rights. indeed, i will be a keynote speaker later this week at the traveller movement conference in london, when i will be championing this worthy cause. much of this initiative report calls for eu action in this area, and in view of my own political position, i cannot support such action at eu level. instead, to tackle this issue properly, the mind-set must be challenged at national level, and that is something that i will continue to do. accordingly, i abstained on this report. however, i voted in favor of amendment 42 and recital q. both pointed towards racism facing the roma communities. i was sorry to note that british conservatives largely voted against this report, but i am hardly surprised – not least bearing in mind that the british conservative government’s recent changes to planning regulations which, quite frankly, are prejudicial towards my own country’s travelling community. this, quite frankly, is unacceptable.
mr president, i abstained on this report and i abstain on many reports, particularly non—legislative ones, in this place. do i agree that minorities are often treated badly? of course i do. do i agree that the roma people in particular have been treated appallingly in some countries and subjected to conditions that no one should be subjected to? of course i do. do i believe that nations should do more to tackle this kind of oppression? of course i do. but then i look at the report and it suggests, within that report, that integration at european level is the solution. no, integration within those communities, within those nations, is what must be done to deal with this problem. therefore the report, to my mind, completely misses the point. for that reason i abstained.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report. cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments the european union has to fight inequality. this report builds on that, by looking specifically at how the cohesion policy can assist in empowering marginalised communities. although there is no uniform eu definition of marginalised communities, martina anderson of sinn féin ensured that the report acknowledged that people in cross-border, rural and isolated areas are often subject to marginalisation due to their geographical situation and should be better taken into consideration by the cohesion policy. the report also acknowledges the needs of women, people with disabilities, migrants, roma and travellers, and highlights the importance of an integrated, grass-roots, community-led and inclusive approach to solving the problems faced by these communities.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. – we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ although i can support some positive elements of this report, such as the call for more detailed information on esif take-up (para 5), the horizontal principles of quality and non-discrimination (para 8) and support for training and smes (para 46), i reject the call for commission guidance on an eu-wide definition of marginalised communities and the suggestion that it is the eu’s responsibility to tackle social disparities, poverty and exclusion in member states. social, health, employment, education and housing and planning policies are areas of member state competence and should remain so. i would also contest the suggestion in this report that measures to tackle member state economic deficits have had a purely negative impact on marginalised communities and fiscally—responsible measures to reduce public spending following the economic crisis led to higher unemployment, a lack of social security and housing and health problems. an explanation of vote will be provided and roll call, separate votes used to highlight aspects of the report that the uk delegation can support.
in writing. – we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ together with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the eu cohesion policy can be a powerful tool in addressing problems that marginalised communities face, such as unemployment, difficult housing conditions, low access to public services, notably health services, multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion and similar issues. i particularly welcome the report’s call for more and genuine involvement of representatives of marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field, as i strongly believe that programmes and policies are most effective when those concerned are actually involved in the decision-making and management processes.
in writing. ‒ together with my eplp colleagues, i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the eu cohesion policy can be a powerful tool in addressing problems that marginalised communities face, such as unemployment, difficult housing conditions, low access to public services, notably health services, multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion. i particularly welcome the report’s call for more and genuine involvement of representatives of marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field, as i strongly believe that programmes and policies are most effective when those concerned are actually involved in the decision-making and management processes.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ together with my labour colleagues i voted in favour of this report as i believe eu cohesion policy is a powerful tool to address the problems that marginalised communities face. these include unemployment, poor housing conditions and low access to public services. they also experience multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion. i welcome the report’s call for genuine involvement of representatives from marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field. as a member of the women’s rights and gender equality committee, i particularly welcome the gender perspective taken in this report.
in writing. ‒ i am proud that i and my fellow labour meps supported the amendment in this report in favour of ‘anti-gypsyism’. my own east of england constituency has the highest number of authorised traveller pitches of any uk region – nearly one-in-four of the uk total. even so, britain’s equalities and human rights commission said our region was joint highest for the number of new pitches needed. moreover, the brutal and avoidable destruction of the dale farm site by the conservative council in basildon in my constituency remains a scar on britain’s reputation, being rightly condemned by the united nations special rapporteur. discrimination must be fought in all its forms and that against the roma continues to be an endemic problem in britain and europe-wide. the only way to stop unauthorised encampments is to provide sufficient authorised sites. the only way to achieve that is to confront anti-traveller prejudice, and thus overcome local opposition which prevents local sites from being established. our proposal in this report represents a real effort to do this, making a commitment to combating discrimination against travellers a condition for receiving this important european funding. we are right to do this.
in writing. – my fellow meps and i abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the eu cohesion policy can be a powerful tool in addressing problems that marginalised communities face, such as unemployment, difficult housing conditions, low access to public services notably health services, multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion, etc. i particularly welcome the report’s call for more and genuine involvement of representatives of marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field, as i strongly believe that programmes and policies are most effective when those concerned are actually involved in the decision-making and management processes.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, which highlights that the implementation of the cohesion policy must tackle the crucial challenge of poverty and exclusion of young people and children, adults and people with disabilities, including the transition from institutional to community-based care and services; urges the member states concerned to take appropriate action and measures to develop and implement strategies towards this end, applying the integrated approach.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this vote due to the sensitivity of the issue at hand. ukip does not believe that the commission should be creating overarching integrating schemes at all. but we also recognise that ostracising marginalised communities that come from disadvantaged backgrounds is also a negative thing. therefore we decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this non-legislative report because it calls on the commission to undertake work to integrate communities. i believe this should be completed by nation states, not the eu.
in writing. ‒ my labour party colleagues in parliament and i voted for this report, believing that the cohesion policy of the eu can be and ought to be a powerful tool in addressing problems which communities on the margins face. these problems may include things like unemployment, unsuitable or difficult housing conditions, poor access to public services – especially healthcare – and the multiple forms of discrimination which disproportionately affect members of this group. the report calls for more and genuine involvement of representatives of marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field. i truly believe that programmes like this are most effective when those concerned are genuinely involved in the decision-making and management processes.
in writing. ‒ together with my labour colleagues i voted in favour of this report as i believe the eu cohesion policy can be a powerful tool in addressing problems marginalised communities face, such as unemployment, difficult housing conditions, low access to public services notably health services, multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion, etc. i particularly welcome the report’s call for more and genuine involvement of representatives of marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field, as i strongly believe that programmes and policies are most effective when those concerned are actually involved in the decision-making and management processes.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am able to support a handful of positive elements in this report, such as the call for more detailed information on esif take-up (para 5), the principles of equality and non-discrimination (para 8), prioritising the needs of children (para 14) and support for training and smes (para 46), i reject the suggestion that it is the eu’s responsibility to tackle social disparities, poverty and exclusion in member states. it is not. social, health, employment, education, housing and planning policies are areas of member state competence and should remain so.
in writing. ‒ together with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the eu cohesion policy can be a powerful tool in addressing problems that marginalised communities face. these issues range from unemployment, difficult housing conditions, low access to public services notably health services, as well as multiple forms of discrimination, social, cultural and economic exclusion, etc. and it is vital that we tackle them. i particularly welcome the report’s call for more and genuine involvement of representatives of marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field, as i strongly believe that programmes and policies are most effective when those concerned are actually involved in the decision-making and management processes. this is a cornerstone of building a more effective europe.
in writing. ‒ together with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this report, for which i was also the s&d shadow rapporteur, as i believe that the eu cohesion policy can be a powerful tool to address problems faced by marginalised communities, such as unemployment, poor housing conditions, limited access to public services, notably health services, multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion. i particularly welcome the report’s call for more and genuine involvement of representatives of marginalised communities in the development, implementation and management of eu funds and projects in this field, as i strongly believe that programmes and policies are most effective when those concerned are actually involved in the decision-making and management processes. the main achievement of the report is a strong unified call from meps for the commission to provide guidance for a common definition of ‘marginalised communities’.
mr president, i voted against this dangerous report, as it represents yet another eu power grab to usurp the sovereignty of democratic, elected member state governments. this is all part of ʽever closer unionʼ and eu empire-building. its call for ʽreform of the security council that would ensure a permanent seat to the euʼ would force britain and france to surrender their seats as permanent members of the un security council. it would spell the end of britain being at the heart of international security at the very time when the world faces such an unprecedented isis threat. this is a hostile attack on britain’s and france’s sovereignty and one we must resist and reject. we have already had to give up our seat at the world trade organization, and we cannot do our own trade deals. we must not now give brussels our seat on the security council.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the reform of the un security council and of the united nations bodies in general is a matter that needs to be addressed. it is clear that at this time, when the security situation in the world, in europe, is deteriorating, the security council and the un bodies in general are not able to act quickly and effectively enough. that is to say, if this report which we have adopted today is to be another impetus for the member states of the european union to put pressure on the other member states of the united nations to reform, then i personally will be satisfied. i think it is also logical that the european union should have one seat on the security council, but i leave room for debate on how the un security council should be reformed in the future. but the situation is not good, and there is a need for change, and this report can help to do that.
mr president, the united nations is a pretty self-explanatory organisation, with the key word being ‘nations’. the eu is not a nation, even though some in this place desperately want it to be. is this another cynical plot for the eu to take over our un seat? i hope not. the eu is not a nation and therefore has no place at the un.
mr president, we keep hearing that federalism has peaked and that we are having a more loose, flexible approach, and that we have a new commissioner who is trying to pass fewer regulations. then we have these debates demanding a single eu seat at the united nations. it is the supreme definition of statehood that you sit as a sovereign entity. my objection is not that it is the british and french seats which are being given up – of course i do object to that, but i do not expect vast sympathy from the rest of the house. it is to the idea that we are building a state and government without any underpinning sense of nationhood. there is no european public opinion, there is no european demos, there is no sense of community of identity in europe in the way that there is in sweden or portugal or hungary. so purely from bureaucratic fiat, we think that we can create a flag, put a state behind it and get people to fall in line. it does not work. human nature is always stronger than bureaucratic plans. nations exist because they are cohesive units. the european union is not.
mr president, at a time of uncertainty and concern encompassing europe in the aftermath of the callous terrorist attacks in paris, it is hugely disappointing that this report on the role of the eu and the un chooses to focus on integration and a single representative mandate for europe rather than promote better national cooperation and coordination to the betterment of all our citizens. instead of pursuing a seat for the eu on the un or giving sound bites about the importance of europe’s apparatus within the un, attention should turn to how europe can act as a liaison for national voices rather than purport to be the voice that trumps everything else. the dup has believed – and always will believe – that governments elected by the people of the united kingdom, and the armed forces that bravely defend our nation, are best placed to represent our interests on the world stage. we need no other voice. what we do need is better coordination, common-sense cooperation and, as in the statement given by mr cameron and president hollande this week, a better awareness and knowledge of how we can work together nationally to face down the terrorist threat that faces many countries across europe.
mr president, the un is the united nations. the european union is not a nation, should never be a nation and cannot replace the nation. i hope, therefore, it is clear that the eu should have no role in the united nations.
mr president, the united kingdom is one of two european union member states within the united nations that have a permanent veto-holding status, france being the other. i will not support any european union proposal that undermines, subverts or diminishes the uk’s position as a key united nations member. the european union may well have delusions of grandeur to supplant individual member states on this important decision-making body, but i will never ever support that european union objective. therefore i voted against all of the key votes on this subject.
mr president, well this is the easiest explanation of vote i will ever make, and it is quite simple. un – united nations. the eu is not a nation. the uk is a proud, sovereign, independent nation. it will always remain that way, i hope to god, and i shall certainly never play any part in that being changed, so i will always vote against measures like this, and i hope to goodness that we always maintain our independence, our sovereignty and our own individual place at the un.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. – we voted against this report as it sought to call and support for the eu as a single entity to have a more significant role in dictating foreign policy, whilst decreasing the influence of member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. – ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for a single, permanent european union seat on the united nations security council. two member states of the european union, france and the united kingdom, already have permanent seats on the united nations security council and i do not believe either country should be forced to give up its seat to the european union. the security council is entirely composed of sovereign nation states and there is no precedent or purpose in a supranational body taking up a seat on the council. for myself personally, and the british government, it is of fundamental importance that the united kingdom, a founder member of the united nations, retains its permanent seat on the security council. with its strong commitment to upholding international law, the united kingdom has led moves for reform to make the un more effective and efficient in delivering peace and security. the un desperately needs reform and undermining the national sovereignty of key un members will only hinder significant positive progress.
in writing. ‒ i will vote against this report due to the inclusion of a demand for a single eu seat on the united nations security council. this is a red line issue given the united kingdom’s permanent status on the unsc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given that the eu needs to play a more significant and coherent role within the un. states should honour their promises to provide humanitarian aid and a coherent and coordinated approach should be adopted across eu and un institutions to the refugee crisis. these and other recommendations detailed in the report are crucial to strengthen the organisation and achieve eu foreign policy goals.
in writing. ‒ together with my eplp colleagues, i support the reform of the un system as a means of strengthening the efficiency of the organisation and to better promote the eu’s foreign policy goals. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must play an active role within the organisation, project its values and contribute to effective multilateralism with a view to providing global solutions to global problems. i am confident that this report will send a strong message about the need for reform in the security council and, importantly, i believe that we need to see women elected to the post of secretary-general of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted for this report, reflecting our deep commitment to supporting multilateralism in the world, and to back an active european union role in the united nations in pursuit of objectives for conflict resolution, human rights, international development and the fight against climate change. however, the european parliamentary labour party voted against the sentence which suggested there should be a single eu seat in the un security council. we strongly support un reform – including of the security council – to reflect today’s reality and to support a fairer balance between developed, emerging and developing countries. but we do not believe that has to be achieved at the expense of the loss of my own country’s permanent seat, which british labour has always sought to use for the very same objectives which we support for the european role. euro-sceptics in britain want to mislead our public by saying that we have to choose between promoting our own country’s interests and our country’s enthusiastic participation in the european union. the un is just one example of where this is a false choice. we can do both.
in writing. ‒ this house is voting on this report at a time of great tension internationally. the ongoing civil war in syria is directly linked to events in paris and brussels and today’s downing of a russian jet will only heighten tensions. the united nations remains a vital part of international diplomacy and it is crucial that the eu and all its member states continue to engage through the un as situations develop.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it inter alia analyses and sets out the eu approach to the role of the eu within the un, detailing reforms to be carried out within the un with the aim of strengthening the organisation and better achieving eu foreign policy goals. it also calls for the eu to play a more significant and coherent role within the un, for states to honour their promises to provide humanitarian aid and for a coherent and coordinated approach across eu and un institutions to the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report and would stress the view that free and fair trade in itself is the most useful tool in helping developing countries to help themselves. it points out the major impact that trade and investment can have on the sustainable development of least advanced poor countries and on fighting poverty and combating human rights violations where it is tailored accordingly, carried out with long-term objectives, clearly targeted, framed within clear performance rules, and connected with counterbalancing measures for transition periods, for instance through specific programmes for trade preferences, trade sanctions, regulation of trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture, inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment, and certification systems regulating trade in conflict minerals. it calls, therefore, for the eu to develop ambitious, efficient and active trade policy measures for promoting the un’s sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the millennium development goals (mdgs); believes, with regard to the conclusion of the doha development round, that the un can use its unique position in the multilateral agenda to ensure that those talks are a success for developing countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this report. the uk’s place on the un security council, and our ability to act independently on the security council in the interests of the british people, is a corner stone of british security and of our position on the global stage. this report seeks to impede that ability, primarily with the ultimate goal of giving the eu a permanent seat on the security council and by the assertion that, until this goal is reached, the uk must represent eu common positions decided by the high representative and other member states on the security council. ukip believe that the british government is elected by the british people to defend their interests on the global stage, not those of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i and my labour colleagues and sister parties support the reform of the un system as a means of strengthening the efficiency of the organisation and to better promote the eu’s foreign policy goals. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must play an active role within the organisation, project its values and contribute to effective multilateralism with a view to providing global solutions to global problems. i am confident that this report will send a strong message about the need for reform in the security council and, importantly, i believe that we need to see women elected as the secretary-general of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which has the aim of strengthening the un and better achieving the aims of eu foreign policy. i support the call for the eu to play a more significant and coherent role within the un, and for states to honour their promises to provide humanitarian aid. however, i opposed the enlargement of the security council.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, my group is against tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. these global problems need global solutions, and i am pleased that the british prime minister has pushed tax matters to the forefront of the g20 agenda. the g20 oecd work in this area has provided a clear global framework, and we want member states to implement the beps country-by-country reporting template. we believe that transparency of tax rulings and exchange of data are also sensible. unfortunately, this report has missed the point; instead of uncovering proof of tax rulings being used as illegal state aid, the report goes too far in calling for tax harmonisation. it is another unwanted call for more europe, which seems to be this house’s response to every question it faces. it also fails to provide clear definitions. there is no definition, for example, of aggressive tax planning as opposed to ordinary legal tax planning; no distinction between legal tax avoidance and illegal tax evasion; no recognition that tax rulings are normally made to clarify overly—complex tax laws. there is no recognition in this report that low tax rates are good for economic growth. tax competition between states is good. taxation is a member state competence; long may it remain so. we need cooperation between states on a global level, not a power grab by the european union.
madam president, my thanks go to colleagues who have already spoken to support this report. i am enormously pleased that our parliament looks set to approve six measures which, if enacted, would radically reduce the possibility of tax dodging across europe. as colleagues have said, the measures are: first, making public the profits and taxes paid by multinationals in every country where they operate; second, fixing a common tax base for corporate tax so companies and governments cannot fiddle around by playing definitions off against each other; third, creating a robust european definition of tax havens with sanctions for those who use those havens; fourth, protecting whistle-blowers like antoine deltour who act in the public interest; fifth, ensuring tax advisers provide a clean service that does not involve conflicts of interest; and finally, making sure countries share information properly and quickly about sweetheart deals concluded with multinationals. i am particularly pleased to see these measures command support across all of the parties – certainly all of the groups – within this house. in fact, when it comes to country-by-country reporting for multinationals and making that public, parliament has already shown its support – emphatically – and i am very pleased that it looks like we will be doing that again in the days to come. the same applies when it comes to measures within this report to protect whistle-blowers, where it is excellent to see so much agreement within this house. however, i have to say that i have been disappointed before and i was disappointed again today – although sadly there appear to be no uk conservatives left in the chamber at the moment – that they continue to be against the consensus of this parliament for european action against tax dodging. in 2013 david cameron said that when taxes are not collected, the poor suffer, but his measures have been described by conservative peers themselves as purely political gestures. i would hope they might have changed their tune, and i will continue to lobby for them to change their tune before the vote on this report. (applause)
madam president, this taxation committee arose out of the lux leaks scandal, which has established that president juncker was in government when corporations gamed the system to a huge extent. instead of censure of politicians like mr juncker, who were involved in allowing corporations to extract exceedingly large profits from the ordinary citizens of europe, the eu has done what it normally does: it has created a sneaky trick to get ever closer union on taxation through the front door, rather than the back door, for a single eu tax policy. here i agree with mr fox from the conservative party. we oppose tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance, but we believe tax competition is positive. as winston churchill once said, we ‘contend that for a nation trying to tax itself into prosperity is like a man standing in a bucket and trying to lift himself up by the handle’. this is the policy of the labour party as exposed by ms dodds on the other side.
in writing.– i welcome the recognition in this report of the fact that member states remain fully competent to set their respective corporate tax rates. the report also points out that the current opacity in the international tax system allows mncs to avoid taxes, circumvent national tax laws and shift their profits to the most favourable location for minimising the payment of tax. i am aware that there may be a need to restore the link between taxation and economic substance, and to ensure that taxes are paid in the countries where actual economic activity and value creation takes place. our constituents should not be the ones to suffer from austerity policies while mncs are able to avoid contributing to the member states through fair taxation. this report offers many constructive suggestions aimed at reducing the scope for blatant tax avoidance, but i cannot support amendments and paragraphs which seek to enhance the eu’s role over member states’ tax policies and rates. i recognise the potential benefits which could arise from increased transparency and the sharing of information between member states but i remain of the view that the member states should continue to exercise full competence in this field.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, this latest budget builds upon the work which went before it, carefully and methodically laying more paving slabs. the problem is that it is the road to hell which is being paved. i could respond in one of two ways to the current proposal. i could tinker around the edges and talk about space programmes or ridiculous political propaganda, issues which could be better done at national level than european level. there are so many things i could talk about. but i think, perhaps, it is better to respond in the other way and to actually address the elephant in the room – the extra eur 1.5 billion for dealing with the migration crisis, frontloaded over the next couple of years, and which actually may well end up kicking the can down the line to a future budget at a time when resources are going to be even more stretched and creating more problems for the european union. we are spending this money and it is leaving all sorts of contortions in other areas; we are spending it on a policy which fundamentally misunderstands the current crisis. it is a global problem which we are treating as a european problem. we warned back in april that a commission change of policy would lead to the mass migration of people. and guess what? it has led to the mass movement of people. it has led to people trafficking, it has led to migrant deaths, and it has caused the problems in the schengen area and security issues. instead of bringing people ever closer, it is dividing still further. it is a policy which purports to be humane but actually leaves millions of the most vulnerable – the elderly, women and children – in refugee camps. other countries are failing to follow britain’s lead in helping in those camps in countries like jordan, lebanon and turkey. frankly, even britain should be doing more. finally, let us remember this: you cannot have liberté, fraternité, égalité without sécurité.
mr president, this budget responds to the immediate needs for additional security, migration and border control, as well as meeting the problems of the agricultural sector. i believe it does it in a manner that is both timely and appropriate. that is welcome, but i want to make two comments. first, it is important that we focus spending on areas that deliver true european added value. we should not forget here that the single most important thing that this budget can do for european citizens is to deliver jobs and growth. second, we have to operate within the limits of the agreed multiannual financial framework (mff). when we are faced with the conflicting pressures of a growing demand for spending, of paying down debt, and a strictly limited budget, the key going forwards will have to be discipline and prioritising spending to those areas that deliver best value for money. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i certainly do agree. i pointed out earlier the priority of creating jobs and growth. i was impressed earlier when the commissioner spelt out how much additional funding would be put towards jobs and growth. you should agree with me that that is a great effort within the constraints of a difficult budget. you also need to understand that the european fund for strategic investment is a valuable tool here which has been leveraged out of this budget, and i wish it every success. it has had a good start, and it is vitally important to this european union and to the people of europe that it does succeed.
blue-card question.– thank you for accepting the blue-card. i noticed that you said youth unemployment can lead towards radicalisation. surely the youth of europe would be better advised, as someone once said in the uk, simply to get on their bikes and look for work, and for them to be enabled to do that by having a more controlled flow of immigration into the eu so that there are more jobs suitable and available for young people to start off on the ladder?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs.– madam president, the events in paris serve as a reminder to us of the very real threat that islamist terrorism poses to our peace, security and social cohesion. ensuring citizens’ safety and security is the primary duty of the state. increasingly – perhaps fooled by the belief that europe had truly entered into a time of a perpetual peace – it appears that some of our governments are beginning to fail to live up to these primary duties. addressing this problem will require tough and difficult decisions from member states. the dati report offers a balanced and sensitive approach to what is a very divisive and politically charged subject. whilst commitments in the report to initiatives such as the eu pnr directive are welcome, a more robust and all-encompassing overall strategy is clearly now needed as well. there is a growing sense, especially as many of the factors affecting radicalisation are often outside of the control of the state, that there is a need to move away from the ideal of preventing radicalisation and instead towards a proactive security policy of managing radicalisation, including asking difficult questions on the financial role played by countries such as saudi arabia and qatar.
blue-card question.– madam president, ‘one—in—five british muslims have sympathy for jihadis’ was the headline of the sun newspaper yesterday. now this really should alarm us all, if it were true. what is actually alarming about this is that it is completely untrue. even the survey company does not support or endorse the interpretation used by the sun newspaper – the largest circulation press in the united kingdom. but the sun does not care a damn what this house thinks... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, over 5 000 eu citizens are currently thought to be foreign fighters and radicalised; these are our own citizens. often they are third- or fourth-generation europeans, often educated and often with loving families. understanding why this is the path they have chosen is one of the greatest challenges we face today, and it requires a comprehensive response. law enforcement, civil society and governments need to work with communities and their leaders, with schools and with prisons. we need to work with internet providers to reduce the dangerous hate-filled and exploitative propaganda on the internet today. we need to better implement existing laws and to reduce loopholes. but i am afraid that today, more and more people are being exploited by criminals. but solutions are never found by pointing the finger of blame at each other, or indeed by the demonisation of entire communities, religions or groups of people. i would like to support the remarks made by my honourable friend dr karim a few minutes ago regarding the appalling way in which the media in the uk and elsewhere has reported such dangerous falsehoods – particularly only days after paris – which undermine all of what we are working towards for the security of our citizens. solutions are found through cooperation, through actions and a willingness to acknowledge that these most difficult challenges are both complex and nuanced. they can only be solved by reason, by good sense, by calmness but firmness, and by working together to resolve them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– mr kirkhope, you supported mr karim’s critique. it was meant to be a question of the sun newspaper. does this mean that in future you and mr karim, and for that matter the entire conservative party, will decline to be supported by the sun newspaper in forthcoming elections?
blue-card answer.– lord dartmouth, that is a very peculiar question you asked. i believe in the freedom of the press, but i also believe in responsible journalism and facts. unlike you – and thank you for your usual intervention whenever i speak – i also happen to trust the people. i trust the people, all the people, of the united kingdom. i believe that they are all people who have a contribution to make in different ways to our society without being demonised in an unfair and improper way.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i also wanted to say that i appreciate the work that has been done on this report. through working together, we have found much to agree on on this report as it is tabled, even if we disagree on some elements – and that is not surprising. but we know we have to work within the framework of the democratic values that we espouse and which are under attack, and not only from one direction – and i do not mean the pop group. the report makes it clear that terrorism is not the prerogative of any single religion, nationality or civilisation, and we also have to recognise at the moment that it is an international phenomenon. we can all agree, for example, that we need to radically improve the use of the intelligence information that we have, to tackle arms trafficking, and to track and disrupt terrorist financing. we will not all agree, it is clear, on the use of pnr. my group’s concerns are well-known, and we feel that the millions of euros to be invested in the system could be better and more effectively spent, for example, on joint investigation teams within europol, on delivering on the effective resourcing of eu agencies – as called for in madam dati’s report – such as cepol, eurojust and europol itself, or on offering further support to the ran network. parliament thoroughly agrees with the evaluation of the commission there. we need to strengthen local capacity to combat violent extremism. in terms of prevention within our own communities, london’s police commissioner at the time of the london underground bombings recently said that national security depends on neighbourhood security. community policing depends on trust from communities, so that people feel able and know how to report the unusual, the worrying and the suspicious. this is not going to happen when everyone from a particular social group is treated as a suspect and an outsider, or if every teacher and social worker is turned into a potential spy. the roles and responsibilities need to be clear and the funding streams different. social cohesion is essential, and those who increase social division and push a style of community collective guilt for terrorist acts are certainly not providing solutions. we also recognise what was said in the report about the internet as a potential vehicle for grooming for the purposes of violent extremism. we need clear rules on how we deal with that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think we can agree on that, and i think there are some very helpful additional amendments from various groups in the house which are also pushing on the issue of having to dry up funding. certainly when you are looking at the large-scale developments within syria and iraq, or whether in nigeria or elsewhere, it is clear that there is a stream of arms coming in there. i think, as people have said, we also have to look at what we do to try and provide a different vision, because it is that vision of the future – a distorted one, i think – which is also creating many of the problems.
madam president, this report completely fails to acknowledge the cause of the current terrorist threat, which is ideological. that ideology is fundamentalist islam. from its creation, islam has been propagated by force and violence. president hollande has said that we are at war. the first casualties in this war must be appeasement and political correctness. we face one of two choices: we can accept eventual submission to the ideology of an ever-increasing islamic population, or we can take the first step in resistance and end any more mass immigration from islamic countries. only then can we start to address the difficult issue of integrating the existing muslim population. the eu strategy is to deny the existence of the real problem, while at the same time importing millions more people from islamic countries. your ideological opponents regard you as fools; history will judge you as traitors.
madam president, i too would like to express my sympathy with the french people. these recent terror attacks prove that we have been sleepwalking into a hotbed of the worst of multiculturalism. british values are abhorrent within many of these self-segregated communities. sadly, multiculturalism is overwhelmingly where the seeds of hate are sewn. since 2012, over 4 000 people have been referred to the uk’s anti-radicalisation programme prevent. half of them were under the age of 18 years old. but for those who have put their radical ideas into action, we cannot have any compassion or show any mercy. jihadi john came from a middle-class family and could enjoy a wonderful british life. but like hundreds of other radicals, he turned against our society, watching porn, using drugs, abusing the freedoms of our society to spread hate and terror. in their nirvana, they would not be allowed to do this. anyone who preaches hatred and calls for violence should be prosecuted. if they are non-british, they must be directly expelled from the uk. we are at war. we have to fight for our values. we must address multiculturalism and fight for our western liberal democracy, our very identity, our culture and our children’s future.
madam president, from my experience of communities living under threat in northern ireland, i can tell members of this house that there is no number of bombs, bullets, or callous acts of terrorism that can hope to uproot democracy or destroy a free and fair way of life. like the provisional ira in my constituency, isis can and will be defeated. the starting point in the fight against radicalisation should be everyone, in each of our societies, coming together to call out these barbarians for what they are. we should be unequivocal in our condemnation. there are members of sinn féin in this parliament. only last week, their party colleague in northern ireland openly said that he did not consider isis to be terrorists. shameful. in the aftermath of the paris attacks, i would call on the sinn féin meps in this house to apologise to our french colleagues for the offence caused by these despicable comments. we must aim to combat radicalism via the internet and support agencies on a national and a pan-national basis with adequate resources and budgets to combat this evil. moreover, the eu must put in place every safeguard to ensure that the road to radicalisation is not nurtured by directly supporting revisionism. in my own constituency we witnessed the complete misuse of european peace funds by the tí chulainn centre in south armagh, where children were photographed in terrorist garb and holding imitation weapons. that is wrong; it ought not to happen and it is important that it should never happen again.
madam president, recently i attended an interfaith event in birmingham in the west midlands of england, which is within my constituency. the heading for the event was ‘love for all, hate for none’, and it was organised by the muslim community there, but there were sikhs, hindus, jews, christians and some of no faith, all coming together to unite behind civilised values, to respect the rule of law, to respect democracy, to love the country in which we all live and to actually stand up for something decent and good. there is no need for any one particular section of the community to be generalised as being the problem here. judge people on their merits. if you find that people are good, that is great. if you find that they support the barbaric evil of isis, they must be fought; they must be beaten and stopped in their tracks for good.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the steel industry is important for our economy, providing employment for thousands of our constituents. demand for steel is still 25% below pre-crisis levels, yet chinese exports have risen by 28% this year alone. excess supply has flooded our markets, often sold at a loss. many countries around the world have reacted to this threat, including the united states, india and brazil. sadly, the eu has not. this month’s meeting of eu ministers, called by the uk business secretary sajid javid, showed strong agreement on the need to take concrete action. these problems also extend beyond the steel sector. since 2007, despite rising demand for aluminium, 11 of the 24 smelters in the eu have shut down. eu climate policies are at fault here, hurting competitiveness, raising prices and ultimately driving industry out of europe. i do not believe the carbon border adjustment mechanism proposed by mr martin in his report is the answer. i fear it will invite retaliation and encourage protectionism around the world. i suspect it would be as successful as extending the ets to the airline sector proved to be. the steel sector now needs action, not proposals that have no prospect of success. i would ask the commissioner to explain what she is going to do to support the industry and combat the anti-competitive practices it faces.
mr president, i started work for british steel stainless stockholders in 1990. during a 20-year career in the steel trade i saw a fairly spectacular contraction in demand. we are at the point now where we have got top-quality, high—tech clean manufacturing in europe and the uk that is being driven out by excessive regulation, excessive energy costs and by totally uncompetitive dumping from china. the uk steel industry is 42% smaller than in 1990. there were 60 000 job losses in europe between 2007 and 2012. the european steel association recently wrote that they were looking for policymakers to act. many of the policymakers have never been near a steel plant and got their hands dirty, so i will give them a couple of ideas. first of all, combat the dumping by china. secondly, look at the electricity prices, which will be up 47% by 2020, and immediately rethink the persecution of our manufacturing in the name of green dreams. european manufacturing is the cleanest in the world. manufacturing matters. it is vital that european policymakers realise this and get on with setting our manufacturers free, so that we can once again lead the world in manufacturing.
mr president, by letting the blast furnace and the coke ovens at redcar go cold on 12 october, the uk government oversaw the end of steel-making in my region after 175 years, with the loss of 2 000 direct jobs and many more in the supply chain. labour meps fought it, but today we do not want to see the same happening in scunthorpe or south wales. let us make no bones about it. the european steel sector is in crisis. sites are closing, with thousands of well-paid highly-skilled jobs lost. it is worse than when lehman brothers crashed. i know; i led steelworkers at that time. we have had enough summits; we have had enough high-level meetings. now we need to see action from the commission and from national governments. it is clear that the global steel market is saturated with overcapacity, especially from china, driving down prices to unsustainable levels. we need to modernise and strengthen our trade defence tools to make them more effective: acting quicker, tackling social and environmental dumping, and opening them up to give the workforce the ability to initiate complaints. edouard martin’s report offers long-term solutions to this crisis, and if implemented correctly it could put european steel on the path to a sustainable future. it should be supported when it comes to plenary. today i am calling on the uk government to stop hiding behind their excuses for inaction, to stop blocking the vital reform of eu trade defence measures and to recognise that steel is a strategic foundation industry on which all of our manufacturing is based. other countries have supported their industries within eu state-aid rules; other countries believe in industrial policy. but we have a secretary of state who refuses to say the words. we in britain like to think that we are different from the rest of europe. but this is a difference which is killing our industries and communities like my own. it is too late for redcar steel workers. let us not let it be too late for other communities across europe. save our steel.
mr president, like uk steel, my time here is running out. we urgently need to have this debate, but more than that we urgently need the commission to take rapid action to make sure that we are using all the anti-dumping measures that the commission and the eu have at their disposal. we are seeing the effects of this on the uk market. incredibly, thousands of jobs have been lost. they have been lost in places in motherwell and in teesside, and jobs are under pressure in places near my constituency, in scunthorpe. that action needs to be taken now, and i am calling on the commission to do so in order that we can have a uk steel industry that we can be proud of. we are proud of our uk industry, but we also need to make sure we can retain the skills that we have and also be able to compete in the marketplace. so i ask the commissioner: please can you speed up the process and make sure you are using everything at your disposal to make sure that british steel can keep competing?
mr president, it is clear from listening to tonight’s debate that colleagues from all over europe are concerned about the crisis in the steel industry, and i would like to thank the uk government for calling the emergency meeting to see what more we can do to help. yes, this is partly due to overcapacity in the global market, but decisions we take now in this sector have long-lasting consequences, because moth-balling is not viable. you cannot just switch a blast furnace back on. so we need to make important decisions and we need to make them quickly. commissioner, please can you fast-track your investigations on unfair trade allegations and use all your trade tools? and, as regards energy-intensive industries, some member states want to give more support but they need to have state-aid clearance. i am not asking you to bend or break competition rules, but rather to make the decisions quickly please, commissioner. competitiveness in this industry is key, but we need to use all the tools in our toolbox and to act together quickly.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, we have to simplify european health and safety legislation and we have to find a way to remove administrative burdens while maintaining protection for workers. we need a simplified legal framework that helps smes to comply. i believe that by removing complexity we will increase compliance. currently we have 24 separate directives making up the occupational health and safety (osh) acquis. in the uk, the health and safety executive claims that simplification could help lift the admin burden on 220 000 smes, with no impact on health and safety protection. so action at eu level must be based on clearly identified risk and must be proportionate to that risk. we cannot eliminate risk altogether but we can manage it. if we wanted to eliminate risk, we would never cross the road – but by educating people and putting in crossings we can successfully manage that risk.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate my socialist colleague, ole christensen, on his excellent report, and i would also like to congratulate, as i did in the committee, the commissioner for her announcement that the list of substances in the carcinogens and mutagens directive will be updated. that is the kind of concrete, common-sense politics that i think these institutions are good at. but i would also like to slightly chide my conservative colleagues for always talking, when they talk about health and safety, about the burden on business, as though the one and the other go hand in hand and are the same things. health and safety is not red tape, it is life and death. that is what we need to be stressing over and over again and not, every time the subject comes up, saying that we must ensure health and safety while also reducing burdens on business.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, on friday 13 november i was with other conservatives and reformists in tunisia, where we were taking part in a conference on building a muslim democratic movement. we knew then, as we saw the pictures coming in from paris, as we shared the grief of the people of paris and of france, that it could all happen again in tunisia – and sadly that is what came to pass overnight. our solidarity should be not only with the people of france but also with the people of tunisia and with all the victims of terrorism and daesh. (applause) one of the terrorists involved in the paris attacks spent his nights drinking alcohol and smoking cannabis, and another never went to the mosque. two british terrorists ordered a book before they fled to syria last year. the name of that book: islam for dummies. yet all these terrorists claim to be carrying out these acts in the name of islam, and are prepared to slaughter innocent people on a friday night in paris – people eating dinner, watching a rock band, just going about their own business. it could have been in any of our cities. it could have been aimed at any of us but, sadly, there is method to their madness. firstly, they hope to inspire copycat attacks and recruit more terrorists. fortunately, the vast majority of muslims will not fall for this. secondly, even though most victims of daesh attacks are in fact muslims, they want, through these attacks on our cities, to provoke a backlash – to convince muslims that islam is despised in the west. we all need to come together to show them that they will not succeed. in the aftermath of the attacks there have been the inevitable statements about the incompatibility between islam and western democracy. we may even hear some of that in this chamber today. but let us be inspired by the words of antoine leiris, who lost his wife, hélène, in the bataclan. he told the terrorists: ‘i will not give you the gift of hating you.’ how brave he must have been to write those words to people who had just murdered his wife – to people who had shattered his life, to people with a love for death, who attacked a city known for its love of life. it is at times like this that our humanity must become stronger and not descend into a spiral of hatred and blame. we need to come together to learn the lessons, to strengthen our resolve and to develop our response – a response that must be measured and proportionate. for if, every time they attack us, we erode our freedoms, there may eventually be no freedoms to defend. the balance between security and liberty will always be hotly debated, but we should debate this delicate balance without accusations, without any of the insults i see flying across this chamber, and without questioning political opponents’ determination to fight terrorism, because this whole house needs to come together to agree on clear and tangible measures to strengthen our protection, such as introducing the passenger name record system by the end of the year. the ecr rapporteur, timothy kirkhope, will deliver on this, working with all the other groups and also addressing the concerns about civil liberties. better sharing of intelligence between national agencies is another such requirement. this does not mean we need an eu intelligence agency; the answer is not always more europe. the answer is to build trust between the agencies of the nation states to make sure they share the intelligence that they have. stronger external borders – building on last week’s home affairs council – are also essential, because so long as the eu’s external borders are weakened, there will be calls for its internal borders to be strengthened. however, we should not pretend that every terrorist crosses borders to come into the eu. many, sadly, were born and were radicalised in eu member states – some searching for an identity or a sense of belonging, others radicalised in prison; some violent individuals looking for a new cause, others vulnerable and fooled into believing in a violent shortcut to paradise in a world of temptation. better integration must be part of the solution, for where there are young people who feel that they do not belong to the country in which they live, where they are ghettoised, isis/daesh will see them as potential recruits. these are all important debates that we will have in the months ahead. but today, whether you believe in a united states of europe or whether you believe in a europe of nation states, we should all unite to state a simple message: we will not surrender to hatred. we will not surrender to intolerance. we will not surrender our freedoms. you can attack us, you can injure us, but you will never break us. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i find the premise of your question interesting, although i disagree with you fundamentally on this. let me be quite clear. we have heard statements from politicians and almost all political groups about islam, and some against islam, in the last few weeks and months. now is not the time – if there ever is a time – to be posing such cheap political questions in this debate. what we should be doing is coming together across the chamber to show these terrorists that we are united in the face of their hatred.
blue-card question.– mr verhofstadt, you mentioned the contradiction between sovereignty and security, but is it not true that national sovereignty and security actually go in harness? was it not actually the mess instituted by the collapse of the unsustainable schengen area that compromised people’s security, including in france a few days ago? and is it not the case that sovereign states need to take responsibility for their own security to protect their citizens?
blue-card question.– thank you and good morning. thank you for taking the question. you speak about tackling the root causes of terrorism. would you agree with me that to blame the poor – particularly in urban areas, as has been said today – and to say that somehow to live in poverty and to be disadvantaged is an excuse to go forward into this kind of radicalisation is an insult to all of the decent, good working poor across europe who have high standards and are just as outraged by this as anyone else? if people have not got a job, have not got work, they should get on their bike and look for it! (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would like to start by offering my condolences, on behalf of my group, to the families and friends of those who were tragically slain in paris. the attacks really brought home to us the danger that we face on our streets today. if we are to deal with the greatest threat that we and our children face in this century – that of islamic fundamentalism – we must resolve the situation in syria. we must first realise who our enemy is, and who our enemy is not. we must not see foreign policy through the eyes of the student common room. we must realise that geopolitics is not black and white; there are very often grey areas, and we must be grown up enough to say that sometimes my enemy’s enemy is my friend, just as we did in the second world war with joseph stalin. we need to put together a grand coalition of nations including not just the western powers but also russia, china, india and muslim nations as well. we must come together to cut out the cancer of radical islamism which brought carnage onto the streets of paris and, i believe, will attempt to repeat the same evil on the streets of another european city sometime soon. we need to admit, too, that bashar al-assad is not a threat to global peace by comparison with the islamism of islamic state. but we must also look at ourselves and ask whether our policies have aided the terrorists – and sadly, the answer is yes. this place is in denial. you are clinging to schengen and freedom of movement of people, just as neville chamberlain clung to appeasing hitler when it was obvious to all that this man could not be dealt with. the obsession with these policies, and the failure to admit that you have been wrong, are placing the lives of our citizens in danger. i warned in this chamber six weeks ago – to howls of derision – that freedom of movement of people in europe would, in the end, lead to freedom of movement of jihad, and, unfortunately, i was proved correct. we must take a hard look in the mirror and ask whether our tolerance is leading to intolerance – and again, the answer must be yes. last week i took a walk around the brussels suburb of molenbeek. i was saddened by what i saw, but unfortunately i was not surprised. it is a snapshot of everything that has gone wrong with the failed policies of political correctness and aggressive multiculturalism. it is a ghetto where many home-grown jihadists live, egged on by saudi-sponsored wahhabism. so, if we are to take steps to solve the crisis that we face, we must first cut out its source – which is the problems in syria – through a global coalition. but at the same time we must take preventive action at home by reinstating border controls and clamping down on saudi-sponsored wahhabism, which is a growing, clear and present danger within many of our communities. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– if we did not do a deal with stalin – and i am speaking as a historian here – then we would now probably be living in a nazi- dominated europe. so we had to do it; we did not really have a choice. equally, at the same time, you talk about appeasing putin. putin is on our side. the real threat in the world today is islamic fundamentalism. if we have to do a deal with the devil, we must do so to ensure that we cut this cancer out of our society.
blue-card question.– i just want to say that i sympathise with the french people tremendously but, ms de sarnez, you and mr verhofstadt seem to think that the answer to this is to set up a pan-european police state. i do not think that. i think that the various nations should work together – the various security authorities of the various states should work together. but we should not have a pan-european police state. do you agree with me on that? i am sure such was not your intention.
madam president, the recent attacks in paris serve as a brutal reminder of the dangers from terrorism right in the heart of europe. in my own constituency, the paris attacks have cast the minds of our people back to the days when ira terrorists bombed our capital city. having endured this threat for many years, the message from the people of northern ireland to paris and france is: we stand with you in solidarity and vow to work with you to combat the evil of terrorism. i also hope that the sinn féin members of this house will have the decency to apologise for the intervention made by their party colleague when he stated that he did not consider isis to be terrorists. what a repugnant view to hold! this fight can only be won by tackling the infrastructure of terror and the radicalisation of youth with a strong coalition of those dedicated to the cause of democracy and freedom and a clear strategy to win. i and my party await such a strategy to be outlined by our own prime minister and will not be found wanting if such a strategy will deliver clear actions against the terrorists. let us stand together to defeat such evil and support the victims of terror.
mr president, first of all i would like to pay tribute to the victims and the survivors of the brutal terrorist attack in paris and their families. having been through and experienced such terrorism in my own area of northern ireland, and having been through a terror lock-down such as is facing the people of brussels at this present time, this is nothing new. words alone will not defeat these terrorists. it will take action – and always remember that this is designed to strike fear into the masses. there is absolutely no excuse for this kind of violence, whether it is political or religious. there are some, sadly, who try to equivocate and even come close to justifying these cowardly attacks. but i hope i can speak for this entire house when i say that all terrorism is wrong and can never be justified. earlier, my colleague from northern ireland, ms dodds, was chastised for what she said about the sinn féin members. i wholly agree with what she said and now, mr president, you can report me to the bureau too.
mr president, after the paris attacks we rightly said: ʽnous sommes unis.ʼ today we have to show the same unity in learning the lessons. counter-terrorist police in my own east of england constituency told me that the checking of passports against the terrorist database at the external border and restricting the flow of firearms in mainland europe would improve our security in britain, too. and as one of five members of the european parliament security-cleared to read eu intelligence, i say that european nations can do much better in sharing their intelligence against our common threat. to the high representative, i say that that when france invokes the treaty’s mutual defence clause, we have to make a meaningful response and that our efforts at the vienna peace table are essential. but part of the obligation for all who sit there must be to cut off the flow of terrorist finance. europe should never compromise its values. unity with our friends in brussels, hoping that life can return to normal as quickly as possible there, because we defeat terrorists by refusing to allow them to disrupt our lives. unity with our tunisian friends, because we do not say that only european lives matter, and we believe we should combat radicalisation in partnership with all countries where terrorists are recruited. unity with refugees, because they are fleeing the very same violence which we saw on the streets of paris, and because all life is sacred. and unity with people of muslim faith in europe and the world, because in europe, we say isis is wrong. we are christian states; we are jewish states; and we european states are islamic states – not you.
mr president, i have to say i am reassured by some of the practical measures being expedited by the council, and this house must not get in their way. perhaps we can see that human rights – and i use that term loosely, in its expanded sense – has become a rather distorted trump card. we need to re-evaluate the operation of international human rights conventions and charters in the light of today’s circumstances rather than those of 70 years ago. the system is out of balance and, even in my own country, the united kingdom, some of the most effective operational security methods have been systematically under attack. as in every crisis, we have again heard the cry for ‘more europe’ from the usual suspects. rest assured: there is excellent liaison between the security services of britain and france and germany and many other european countries. we do not need an eu security service but rather greater resources, and more professionalism in those countries where it is lacking. i do not have time to talk about the bizarre invocation of article 42(7) of the treaty on european union, but that is another indication of where people are using this crisis to take forward an entirely different agenda.
mr president, i extend my deepest condolences to the families of victims of the paris attacks. we stand united against terror. paris was an attack against us all. let us not forget too that every day is paris somewhere in the muslim world. only yesterday we witnessed another terrorist attack in tunisia. in order to bring the perpetrators to justice and to prevent further attacks, better eu intelligence cooperation, data-sharing and surveillance are crucial. this is why i applaud the most concrete step taken so far to increase european security: the decision to launch a european counter-terrorism centre under europol supervision. the centre will bring together leading counter-terrorism specialists from each member state. they will work together under one roof on operational coordination. fear cannot be countered only by increasing security. we must counter it with facts, and the facts are clear: muslims are not the enemy. in our battle against extremism, muslims in europe and abroad are our allies. amid fear and pessimism we must remain true to our values, upholding freedom and human rights while providing security to our citizens.
mr president, i was lucky. my own family in paris that night were not in the bar; they were not at the match and were not at the concert. this could have happened to any of us. terrorism is never justified and we must be united in the fight against terror, united across countries and, importantly, united across different faiths. we must give the security services the tools they need to do their job. if they want better sharing of data, let them have better sharing of data. if they want to know who is getting on an aeroplane, let them see the passenger name list. this is to keep the rest of us safe, so that we can continue to travel and trade across borders. our national experts have a huge amount of experience in many countries in fighting against terrorism, and it is not this house’s role to stand in their way. give them the tools they ask for.
mr president, may i make a point of order? for rules of procedure we are supposed to be able to vote properly, aren’t we? you are going at a very fast speed that means we cannot get our hands up and down in the right place. are you just going by the voting list of the socialists and the liberals in front of you, or are you actually looking at the vote? because we cannot get our hands up and down in the right place. this is not a very good advert for the public gallery.
mr president, you are going so fast, the interpreters cannot keep up and the interpreters are getting it wrong! (uproar)
mr president, this was a disgrace to democracy. the speed at which you went through that voting list was obscene. i intend to send a copy of it to every member of the house of commons, the house of lords and the scottish parliament to show what a farce this place is. if that is your idea of democracy, this place is a joke. (applause from the efdd group)
mr president, i believe our parliament offers training courses for members. perhaps ukip members could be offered a training course first in parliamentary democracy and second in learning how to read.
mr president, i would like to thank mr corbett very much for his rather interesting intervention. if i might explain the problem to you, mr corbett, the difficulty is that there is one thing on a screen, there is another thing being said in one language, it is being translated into english, there are constant mistakes in that, we are reading the voting lists at exactly the same time and mistakes are made when that entire process takes something like five to six seconds. there is something deeply wrong with a democratic system in which we do not know whether people have voted in favour or against. even president schulz, earlier, was calling votes as having gone against when they had actually gone in favour, or in favour when they had actually gone against. that is a fundamental nonsense and surely, mr corbett, if you believe – and you are, i believe, a true believer – in the institutions and structures of this place, then you should be on our side on this one! you should be standing up against things that are going wrong, but you are not. and i look around and i see your labour colleagues – my labour colleague in the north—east was smiling, joking and clapping at any suggestion that we can get things done more quickly. that is a nonsense, an absolute nonsense! so can we please at least have the semblance of democracy in this place for once? it would be nice. sadly, with regard to the anti—democratic comments of those who just want to get lunch quicker: lunch is not more important than democracy. (applause)
mr president, please, my earlier remarks were intended really in response to mr corbett’s rather rude remarks directed towards those of us in ukip. i completely understand the difficulties that you face. the reason you face these difficulties is, of course, that there are often in strasbourg over a thousand times when we have to vote in a single week. it makes this something where you have time pressures which perhaps you should not have, and certainly in westminster we would not have a problem like this one. what i would say, though, is that if we are trying to cram so much into just a couple of days a month in strasbourg and in brussels, maybe there is a problem with the scheduling of debates and votes. we have already heard from mr moraes that there were all sorts of problems and i had exactly the same problem. i tried to speak in a debate last night in the catch-the-eye where catch-the-eye was cancelled. now if we are not having a proper debate, then the question should surely be that we need to have enough time allocated so that we can have debates, and we need to have enough time allocated for the vote. i would make that point very much independently of my feelings about this place and the institutions because, fundamentally, things should be done in the right way and they are not being done in the right way at the moment. please do not take that as a personal criticism, i am not criticising you personally, although of course i was criticising the member, who was quite insulting.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions, there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. – we supported this report as it calls on the member states to use part of the allocation, in particular the one which comes from eu revenue, eur 2.3 billion, to be used for the africa trust fund, the syria trust fund and un agencies supporting refugees and humanitarianism.
in writing. ‒ this amending budget refers to the return of money to member states which is rightfully theirs and which lies outside the scope of the 2015 budget. this needs to be done. however, the report criticises member states and brings the subject of migration into it, making highly critical comments. that is a nonsense; the money does not belong to the eu and it is not for the eu to lecture member states about how they should spend it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. – ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. ‒ this concerns many annual adjustment exercises with the overall impact on revenue amounting to a decrease in the gni—based contribution from member states to the eu budget of eur 9.4 billion. for the uk, this equals gbp 1.2 billion. the uk government estimated that when the 2015 gross payment for the annual vat and gni adjustment is considered, the transfer from the eu to the uk amounts to approximately gbp 630 million. this technical exercise has nevertheless become politicised by parliament. the rapporteur attempted to link this annual adjustment to the migrant crisis during the budget negotiations, pressuring member states to use their decreased contributions to the eu budget to match the commission’s eur 2.3 billion expenditure on the trust funds for africa and syria. the uk government is the leading contributor to humanitarian aid in the eu, if not to these specific funds. despite parliament’s attempted overreach, i can vote in favour of this report due to the decrease in member states’ gni—based contribution to the eu budget, and in the knowledge that parliament’s attempt to link the annual adjustment to trust funds will have no legal effect.
in writing. – ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions, there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. ‒ i supported draft amending budget no 8/2015, which underlines that substantial additional financial means are necessary to address the current refugee crisis. it is regrettable that despite the unprecedented refugee crisis we are currently witnessing, member states’ financial pledges for the africa trust fund, the syria trust fund and to un agencies supporting refugees, reconfirmed at the informal meeting of eu heads of state and government on migration of 23 september 2015, at the european council of 15 october 2015 and at the valletta summit of 11-12 november 2015 have not yet been met.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions, there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. – ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions, there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it concerns mainly the revision of the forecast of own resources resulting in a decrease of member states’ gni-based contributions. although agreeing to the reflow to the member states, this report encourages member states to use the extra money to address the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report but regret that no firm compromise could be reached in conciliation to use the reflow from draft amending budget no 8/2015 to address the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions, there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted to abstain because this report focuses on reducing the member state contributions, but it also strongly deplores that the member states are lagging behind in payments to help with the migrant and refugee crisis. regardless of the reductions, there is an issue relating to paying out money for the africa and syria trusts. in october, all cuts to the budget were voted against and as a result the budget increased to eur 157.4 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments. the african trust fund amounts to eur 1.8 billion and this money is allocated to examine the root causes that create irregular migrations and displaced persons. the trust fund for syria is worth eur 40 million, however already eur 4 billion has been given to the refugee crisis. we are owed money from the eu due to the additional gbp 1.7 billion that was demanded from the uk government by the eu, plus any savings that are made by the reduction in member state contributions will end up back in the budget to promote the security 7 citizenship agenda and global europe; both of which we do not support.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because the money that is owed to the uk (1.2 bn) has to be returned anyway. this report calls for the money to go the refugee crisis, which i think should be up to nation states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. – we supported this report as it was necessary to mobilise funding to finance measures to address the refugee crisis and migration, especially in the context of the humanitarian approach.
in writing. ‒ the european union’s approach to the refugee crisis is fundamentally wrong, and therefore i cannot support more taxpayers’ money being spent on it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. – ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument allows for the financing of expenditure which could not otherwise be financed within the limits of the ceilings under the multiannual financial framework (mff). the amount under consideration in this proposal is eur 1.5 billion, and i have some concerns about this mobilisation. there is still room for redeployments within the budget to tackle the migrant crisis. however, the true scale of these redeployments may only be realised when commissioner georgieva’s performance-based budgeting is fully underway. this exercise is expected to provide an evidence-base for deprioritising from wasteful and unnecessary budget lines. the proposal mobilises the flexibility instrument for the maximum possible amount (the annual ceiling is set at eur 471 million in 2011 prices and any unused portion of this amount can be carried over for three years). this could hamper the ability to respond to unforeseen circumstances in later years, and could call into question the suitability of current mff ceilings in next year’s mid-term review. nevertheless, use of the flexibility instrument is something the uk has argued for before. moreover, the extraordinary scale of the migrant crisis is a textbook case of an ‘unforeseen circumstance’ for which the instrument was intended.
in writing. – ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. ‒ i supported this mobilisation of funds, given that efficient management of the refugee crisis should be a priority for the eu. the mobilisation of this fund is also budget neutral over the period of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which allows for the mobilisation of funds on the grounds that the refugee crisis facing europe is critical and must be a priority for the eu. the mobilisation of this fund will be budget neutral over the term of the mff period.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. – my fellow colleagues and i voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, as due to urgent needs, it is necessary to mobilise an additional amount to finance measures to alleviate the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that parliament made sure that all the resources available in the eu’s multiannual financial framework (mff) will be tapped to deal with the ongoing refugee and migration crisis, which needs to be tackled both within the member states and in countries close to the conflicts from which migrants are fleeing. the agreement includes eur 1.6 billion on top of the commission’s original proposal.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this flexibility instrument because the instrument focuses on an amount for eur 1.53 billion in commitment appropriations to deal with the migration crisis. a further eur 24 million is being allocated for global europe to help refugees and migrants seek employment and social justice under the heading of global europe. the key points surrounding this instrument focuses over four years from 2016 to 2019 for a total of eur 1.3 billion, the largest amounts are spread over 2016 & 2017. in 2016 eur 734.2 million has been allocated and for 2017 eur 654.2 has been allocated.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for more eu spending, which i am against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this budgetary procedure because the mobilisation of these funds should be and is a priority of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. after having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument for the amount of eur 1.5 billion through the flexibility instrument to finance measures in the field of migration. this includes unused annual amounts available for the flexibility instruments of previous years (2014 and 2015). that amount shall be used to finance measures for managing the refugee crisis. the refugee crisis is, and must continue to be, a priority for the eu and so i am supportive of this much—needed funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of funds because the refugee crisis is a critical and urgent priority for the eu. i deplore our own uk government’s inaction on this subject, lagging behind public opinion, and its continued refusal to take a european approach to what is clearly a european problem. much more must still be done at a european level on common asylum procedures.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the principle of the solidarity fund and therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. – ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ the commission’s proposal provides eur 50 million in 2016 for the payment of advances, ensuring that funding can be made available to natural or regional disasters as quickly as possible. advances are limited to 10% of the anticipated contribution of financial assistance (or no more than eur 30 million). in order to be eligible for financial assistance under the eusf, member states must have experienced non-insurable damage totalling 0.6% of gni. regions at nuts level 2 of an eligible state must have experienced non-insurable damage totalling 1.5% of that region’s gdp. the ecr group recently voted in favour of financial assistance under the eusf for instances of severe winter conditions in bulgaria and flooding in greece at the beginning of 2015. i can vote in favour of this report, given its largely technical nature, and previous support for the principles and objectives of the eusf. no amendments were made by any political group at committee stage.
in writing. – ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the use of the eu solidarity fund. disaster-hit regions of the eu should be aided where possible. in this instance the eu is right to allocate funds to help against natural disasters. i welcome the fast pace at which this has gone through the parliament so that the money can be used for a good cause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide for payment of advances in the 2016 budget european union solidarity fund, given that it is important we are able to respond in a rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the populations of regions struck by disasters.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. – i voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this provision, as it ensures the timely availability of budgetary resources and allows for a faster disbursement of assistance to affected countries.
in writing. ‒ the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering into the general budget of the union for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in a timely and efficient way in the event of a disaster occurring next year.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this disaster fund for europe because it has been allocated eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. the maximum ceiling for this fund is eur 500 million per annum; we oppose commitment appropriations, as they only increase the budget. the money that the member state claims has already been paid by the membership fees that they pay to the eu; it is clearly a case of getting your own money back.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this, as the uk does not qualify for this type of payment. the uk government should decide on what foreign aid it should send.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this budgetary procedure because it will ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources and allow for a faster disbursal of assistance to countries which have been affected by disaster. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the eu to respond rapidly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations, and i totally embrace the solidarity that this fund presents with those struck by unfortunate circumstances.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the 2016 budget for many reasons, as outlined in committee. much money could have been saved in a variety of areas but there was a lack of political will to do it. on the other hand, it pushes the commitment allocations still higher and seems to me to be kicking the can down the road to a future budget. it is not a responsible budget.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million. the cosme programme is designated to aid sme throughout the eu and beyond has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. – ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ the parliament and the commission have been pushing for a larger budget rather than de-prioritising less important spending programmes and re-allocating funds to short and medium term priorities. the ecr group called for a ‘reprioritisation’ of the eu budget to meet pressing needs, while respecting the need to address the abnormal level of unpaid bills. the resulting agreement of the conciliation committee moves somewhat in this direction but there remain highly problematic elements within the budget which i would oppose. only 800 million of margin remains for payments in 2016 leaving little room to cope with further unforeseen circumstances. this is likely to put pressure on the mff ceilings during next year’s mid-term review, when these slim margins will inevitably be strained. some european money needs to be targeted at the ongoing migration crisis. however, there is significant scope for redeployment of funding in multiple headings from budget lines with low implementation rates and poor absorption capacity. the uk delegation has consistently argued against any increase in the eu budget. it should live within its means as agreed in the mff. the same budgetary rigour applied to national spending should be applied to eu spending. the result of the conciliation committee does not sufficiently satisfy these principles.
in writing. – ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 budgetary procedure, which declares that the european union’s general budget for the financial year 2016 has been definitively adopted and arranges for its publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. ‒ since the publication of the commission’s draft budget in may 2015, a number of significant events have occurred with budgetary implications, relating to greece, the agricultural sector, and most importantly the migrant and refugee crisis. however, instead of de-prioritising less important spending programmes and re-allocating funds to short and medium term priorities, the parliament and the commission have focused their efforts on pushing for a larger budget. the uk delegation has consistently argued against any increase in the eu budget. the eu budget should live within its means as agreed in the mff. we believe the same budgetary rigour applied to national spending should be applied to eu spending. the result of the conciliation committee does not sufficiently satisfy these principles. this is not to say that the draft budget is without any positives. an increase of funding for research and innovation programmes like horizon 2020 is a very much welcome addition. nevertheless, there remain a number of highly problematic elements which i cannot support. it is for these reasons that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. – along with my colleagues, i voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the budget for 2016 has been adopted and that parliament’s priority of enhancing the eu's competitiveness translates into extra resources for small and medium-sized enterprises (eur 14.3 million), funds for horizon 2020 (eur 184.5 million) and funds for the infrastructure tool connecting europe facility (eur 150 million) to reinstate some of the money previously diverted from them to the juncker investment fund, and funding for the student exchange programme erasmus+ (eur 6.6 million). parliament also persuaded the council and the commission to make a commitment to continue the youth employment initiative, which is currently under review, in 2016 and to keep the level of unpaid european bills at a sustainable level.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this conciliation on the basis that instead of reducing the budget there are large increases in certain programmes that are not justified and do not contribute towards fruitful aims and objectives for the beneficiaries that the programmes are meant to support. the euro crisis is one of the main contributors towards sme financial problems and continuous eu regulations that hinder sme progress. many eu regulations are hindering employers to take on new employees and train them up to keep abreast of regulations. the horizon 2020 programme has been allocated eur 31.8 million; it has already been allocated eur 150 million. erasmus is a europe-wide education programme that allows students to have mobility throughout europe and has been allocated a further eur 6.6 million. security & citizenship has been allocated eur 1.5 billion, and a further eur 150 million will be mobilised to help turkey to deal with the crisis. the cosme programme is designated to aid smes throughout the eu and beyond, and has been allocated a further eur 14.2 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text as it calls for more eu spending, which i am against.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because article 1 of reach states that the aim of the regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, and that only substances that do not adversely affect human health and the environment are put on the market. the proposal of the commission to authorise through an implementing act dehp in pvc plastic in spite of grave concerns regarding the impact of this chemical on human health is deeply worrying. dehp has been shown in animal studies to damage the liver, kidneys, lungs and reproductive organs of males. this chemical is a phthalate which is a member of the family of ‘gender-bending’ chemicals. by authorising this chemical the commission would be putting cheap plastic goods ahead of the risks to male fertility and misformed sex organs in prenatal and neo natal males.
in writing. ‒ i recognise that there are concerns with this chemical; however, this is a matter which should be dealt with by the member states themselves. i do not have enough information to know at what pace the use of this chemical should be phased out.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. ‒ i disagree with the objector's concerns and support these authorisations on grounds of increasing the predictability and transparency of the reach authorisation procedure and promoting the circular economy. under this procedure, a substance of very high concern cannot be used after a specified date unless authorised; the sunset date for dehp was 21 february 2015. the authorisations now under consideration would only allow the continued use of recycled pvc to which dehp was added when first manufactured. it wouldn't permit dehp to be added to recyclate materials. there is agreement that dehp is an endocrine disruptor, but contrary to the objector's assertions, there is also no scientific consensus that a threshold for safe use cannot be identified and applied for endocrine disruptors. most importantly, the echa’s assessment committees considered that there would be minimal risk to consumers from articles made of recycled pvc, and the implementing act includes monitoring conditions to improve worker protection. the objection should account for the wider implications of not granting authorisation, which includes the circular economy aims, and the prospect of increased environmental damage. environmental damage costs of manufacturing virgin pvc have been calculated as eur 394 a tonne, and eur 14 a tonne for recycling pvc waste.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp, given the commission is accountable to the european public for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, while promoting innovation, including in the area of safer chemicals and products to foster a resilient economy.
in writing. – today i voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp) along with my fellow colleagues. we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which makes it clear that the eu should not authorise the recycling of plastics that contain the banned softener diethylhexyl phthalate (dhep), to make soft pvc items such as footwear and floor coverings, because it poses a reproductive toxicity threat to exposed workers and could render their male foetuses sterile.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection to the authorisation, even though it also concerns one of the czech companies. i am convinced that there may be a real threat to public health and the environment from the use of this dpeh phthalate. furthermore, i do not believe that the applicants for authorisation have made a convincing argument that they will be able to control the risks described.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the resolution authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl) phthalate (dehp). we recognise the sensitivity and the importance of this issue and we believe that each member state should decide in what measure the prohibition should take place.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection, because if the ban was introduced immediately, it could be damaging to uk industry.
mr president, i have been hesitant about this report, i have not supported it. and the reason is what some of my previous speakers have already suggested. for me personally, the problem is to enforce the common tax base for direct taxation, specifically corporate income tax. i was running for a centre-right party in the czech republic, which had made it clear in its programme that it would not seek to unify rates and bases for direct taxes. so i have to keep and i want to keep the promise to my constituents and to preserve and promote the autonomy of direct taxes, the autonomy of individual tax systems. i still believe that healthy competition between the different tax systems in the different countries of the european union is beneficial. of course, it cannot take the form of unfair competition or tax dumping, as some countries like luxembourg have done.
mr president, the main constraint on a government wishing to raise taxes is international competition. you can raise your tax up to a certain point and then the money begins to flee to friendlier jurisdictions. it is a reality that is becoming more and more true as modern technology facilitates capital movement globally. we can complain about it, we can try and legislate against it, but we cannot stop it. the only way in which we can tackle the loss of revenue as a result of tax avoidance is by making our own tax regime more attractive, which brings me to the fundamental argument against tax harmonisation. the more you centralise, the more you make it a uniform rate, the more you take away that constraint and allow governments to help themselves to more and more without any oversight. hands up anybody in this chamber who thinks that harmonised taxes will be harmonised downwards?
mr president, essentially this to me shows that there are two honest positions in terms of membership of the european union. you either take the federalist approach and recognise that, for everything that the european union tries to do as a whole, it requires then to harmonise taxation, it requires then greater powers, greater centralisation, and you embrace that. it is an honest position. it is not a position that i personally share. the other honest position is to say that actually, that is not what the united kingdom requires; that we are better as an independent, self-governing nation, as the world’s fifth largest economy; that we want to be good neighbours with europe: we want to trade with europe but we do not want european government. those two positions are honest. what i find very difficult is the third way: this idea that we can somehow be in europe but act as a brake pedal on europe. that is not fair on the uk; it is not fair on the rest of europe either. we need to be honest: are we in or are we out?
in writing. ‒ the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. – we voted against this report which i believe is an attack on member states tax sovereignty. the european parliament’s special taxe committee report was an elaborate pr stunt which was weak on matters of importance such as the need for full transparency while simultaneously attacking the principal of national sovereignty on taxation matters. it is my belief, that it does not serve the interests of the ordinary irish citizen to have our sovereignty relinquished through any attempted tax harmonisation. the report provided an opportunity for parliament to demand transparency and accountability in both the european and international taxation system, but the majority of meps rejected measures that would have facilitated this. instead, they adopted a number of disconcerting provisions which fundamentally undermine taxation sovereignty. sinn féin want tax fairness and transparency to be placed at the centre of any taxation legislation and this extends to ensuring that a more equitable corporate tax system is implemented. but all matters relating to the setting of tax rates must remain a matter of national competency and the european parliament has no right to attempt to attack sovereignty in this way.
in writing. ‒ the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. – the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends direct taxation and tax harmonisation powers for the eu. i do not think that taxation is an eu competence and cannot support a report which is proposing this. therefore i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report contains direct taxation and tax harmonisation powers for the eu that i cannot support. too few of the uk delegation’s amendments were taken on board. we had tried to emphasise the benefits of fair tax competition, emphasised the important role of state aid rules acting as a deterrent in member states’ compliance, underlined the fact that issues relating to direct taxation are a national prerogative and that changes to council unanimity rules would require changes to the treaty. in addition, the ecr tried to make the report a bit softer by mitigating the alleged misconducts by mncs and member states. however the final report does not reflect our amendments.
in writing. – the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the taxe report, because the work of the taxe committee has shown that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance is a problem across europe. it costs billions every year: billions that should be invested in schools, hospitals and public services. for too long, both governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax – a race in which ordinary people are the losers. this report sets out a number of bold recommendations to stop these dreadful practices once and for all. now it is time for eu governments – and especially the tory uk government – to listen to the will of the people and to end tax fiddling for good.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the taxe report, because the work of the taxe committee has shown that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance is a problem right across europe. it costs billions every year: billions that should be invested in schools, hospitals and public services. for too long, both governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax – a race in which ordinary people are the losers. this report sets out a number of bold recommendations to stop these dreadful practices once and for all. now it is time for eu governments – and especially the tory uk government – to listen to the will of the people and do something to end tax fiddling for good.
in writing. ‒ labour meps voted in favour of the taxe report, because the work of the taxe committee has shown that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance is a problem right across europe. it costs billions every year: billions that should be invested in schools, hospitals and public services. for too long, both governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax – a race in which ordinary people are the losers. this report sets out a number of bold recommendations to stop these dreadful practices once and for all. now it is time for eu governments – and especially the tory uk government – to listen to the will of the people and do something to end tax fiddling for good.
in writing. ‒ i am proud to be a supporter of the tax justice campaign and, as this parliament’s longstanding rapporteur on corporate social responsibility, have always argued that the fair payment of tax and transparent reporting of doing so is an integral obligation for responsible business. corporate tax evasion costs the uk gbp 9 billion a year, with small and medium sized businesses paying 30% more tax than their multinational counterparts. this is unfair and wrong. i am proud to have helped win european rules requiring transparent payments by extractive companies, and hope today’s vote will be a staging post towards establishing full country-by-country reporting for corporate tax payments, which the european council has promised. i am very disappointed that one of the conservative meps for my own east of england constituency voted against today’s measures. he should explain why our small businesses have to pay taxes that big business doesn't; and why his party which says it is pro-business refuses to back action which creates a fairer business environment for all?
in writing. ‒ while this report suggests a number of positive measures, i remain of the view that member states should retain full competence over decisions concerning taxation and i disagree with the notion that the eu should have tax powers. i therefore i voted against all text concerning the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) including paragraphs 29, 97, 114, 116, 117, 118. on the other hand, i voted in favour of protecting whistleblowers (paragraph 143, amendment 21) and supported the call for the commission ‘to fully implement the eu ombudsman’s recommendations regarding the composition of expert groups’ (paragraph 127). moreover i welcome measures to increase transparency regarding the activities of multinational companies is essential for ensuring tax administrations are able to effectively combat beps (paragraph 135). the positive aspects in the report allowed me, on balance, to support it in the final vote.
in writing. – the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report, as it calls on multinational companies in europe to publish information on their profits, taxes and activities in every country in which they operate. labour meps have been calling for this measure for years, as it will allow governments and citizens alike to see where multinationals make their money and where they pay their taxes. the report also calls for greater action to be taken against tax havens, by agreeing a common definition of the term and then applying sanctions against those companies which make use of them in order to avoid paying tax.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and support its basic message that multinationals should pay fair tax and pay their taxes where they make their profits.
in writing. ‒ the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ the motion calls on the commission to act and, in particular, to progress the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) by which the eu intends to harmonise taxes across the eu and thereby prohibit beneficial tax competition between member states, and for this reason ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as it calls for more tax harmonisation across the eu, which i am against. nation states should manage their own affairs in relation to taxes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report from the taxe committee. aggressive tax avoidance and evasion is a problem across the eu, as the committee has shown. billions of pounds every year are not being applied where they should; the individuals who are involved in this activity are taking all the advantages of being a part of a society and not contributing their fair share. this is billions which could be invested in schools, hospitals and public services, and for too long, governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax, which makes ordinary people who do pay their taxes the losers at the expense of the super-rich. it is now time for the governments of the eu – especially the tory government of the uk – to listen to the will of the people and actually do something to end this completely unreasonable practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the taxe report because the work of the taxe committee has shown that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance is a problem across europe. it costs billions every year: billions that should be invested in schools, hospitals and public services. for too long, both governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax – a race in which citizens are the losers. this report sets out a number of bold recommendations to stop these dreadful practices once and for all. now it is time for eu governments – and especially the tory uk government – to listen to the will of the people and do something to end tax fiddling for good.
in writing. ‒ this is a report that i very strongly supported, because the work of the taxe committee has shown that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance is a problem right across europe and can therefore only be properly met with a pan-european response. it costs the nations of europe billions every year: billions that could and should be invested in schools, hospitals and public services. for too long, both governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax – a race in which ordinary people and the services we all use are the losers. this report sets out a number of bold recommendations to stop these dreadful practices once and for all. it is not enough to simply talk a good game about clamping down on loopholes and ending morally-dubious tax practices, it is now time for eu governments – and especially the tory uk government – to listen to the will of the people and do something to end tax fiddling for good.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the taxe report, because the work of the taxe committee has shown that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance is a problem right across europe. it costs billions every year in lost revenue: public money that should be invested in schools, hospitals and public services. for too long, both governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax – a race in which ordinary people are the losers. this report sets out a number of bold recommendations to stop these cynical practices once and for all. now it is time for eu governments – and especially the tory uk government – to listen to the will of the people and do something to end tax fiddling for good.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the taxe report, because the work of the taxe committee has shown that tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance is a problem right across europe. it costs billions every year: billions that should be invested in schools, hospitals and public services. for too long, both governments and multinational corporations have been involved in a race to the bottom on tax – a race in which ordinary people are the losers. this report sets out a number of bold recommendations to stop these dreadful practices once and for all. now it is time for eu governments – and especially the tory uk government – to listen to the will of the people and do something to end tax fiddling for good.
mr president, i supported this report because i strongly believe radicalisation is one of the major challenges we are facing. over 5 000 eu citizens have left to fight for terrorist organisations in iraq and syria. we cannot continue to run behind the facts, whether it is radicalisation in the uk, in belgium or in france or the rest of the eu. we have to look at prevention, and it is clear that eu action has important added value when it comes to curbing radicalisation, and given that this is an issue that does not stop at national borders – think about social media giving a platform to those manipulating individuals in such a way that they radicalise in total isolation from the rest of the society. it is an issue that member states are not able to address effectively by themselves, but where the eu can. it is key that we work together to find real solutions without compromising our civil liberties and cracking down on fundamental rights.
mr president, if we want settlers and their children to integrate, we have to offer something into which to integrate. we have to project a sense of shared purpose, of common patriotism that can embrace all our citizens. what do people see when growing up in europe? they see the idea of the nation state derided and traduced; they are told that the whole concept of national identity is both passé and dangerous. consider the experience of a boy of, say, moroccan origin, growing up in molenbeek. what are his life experiences? his every interaction with the state will have taught him to despise it. if he was taught any history at all in school, it will have been presented to him as a hateful chronicle of racism and exploitation. he sees the two linguistic communities in belgium identifying within themselves, rather than at federal level. but where does that leave him? what is there for him to be part of? is it any wonder that a minority of people in those communities begin to cast around for a stronger, bolder, more self-assertive identity? the way to defeat a bad idea is with a better idea. there is no worse idea than islamic state and no better… (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would just like to say that it is not you i am getting at particularly, it is the whole system – the eu has been far too fast. what is terrifying – and i am speaking about this issue here – is that laws, or rather freedoms, in europe are being lifted faster than you can sell a prize bull at a cattle auction. i think that is terrifying to most british people watching today’s performance. i know we have a lot of stuff to get through. perhaps we should get through less stuff and we would get it through better. i am concerned also that the left and the liberals are covering their mistakes with open door immigration by trying to have a radical, rapid, authoritarian legislation brought in, which i do not think is in the interests of either catching these criminals or indeed of liberty in europe. so there are two things that are a threat. firstly, there is the speed of passing laws, which no one has properly considered. secondly, there is the fact that the left is trying to cover their tracks and their mistakes by bringing in authoritarian laws.
mr president, the 1996 education act in the united kingdom requires that schools teach from a politically-neutral perspective. i have a concern specifically on this report where an amendment was passed after paragraph 25, i believe, which states that it is member states’ duty to guarantee that their education systems respect and promote eu values and principles. i do not see it as being the responsibility of the british government to politicise our education system in this way. i believe that fundamentally, what education should be about is teaching children and giving them the skills to think for themselves, not telling them what to think. for that reason, as well as various others which will, i am sure, be articulated by my colleagues, i felt it necessary to vote against this report.
mr president, i have just voted against a report on the prevention of radicalisation and terrorism in europe, a report that has actually been symptomatic of why the eu is not capable of stopping this kind of thing. we have had a debate on it where all sorts of things were thrown out: ‘oh, the terrorists, it’s because they’re poor’; ‘oh, it’s because they don’t have a chance’; or ‘it’s because we’re harsh towards them and people speak out against immigration – oh, that’s why’. trying to understand reasons and always missing the point – always, because people are not actually on the ground floor seeing this – and then deliberately shying away from the fact that obviously, mass immigration has something to do with it, because you are bringing in large numbers of people and you do not know who they are. it is obviously there. let us not be politically correct. and then at the end of this farcical debate we have the most ludicrous voting session where, frankly, most of the people in the chamber do not even know what they are voting for. their hands are up, down, and no one knows what is happening. it has got passed through. i voted against it. it is an utter nonsense.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. – i voted against this report for a variety of reasons. whilst the report included some positive aspects in relation to addressing issues of intolerance, marginalisation and discrimination, on the whole the report contained too many negative aspects and i had to vote against. these negative aspects included; the extension and enhancing of the remit of eu agencies such as europol, the request of enhanced control of the eu’s borders, the calls for the isolation and segregation of prisoners, the report's commitment to the introduction of european pnr and the call for enhanced cooperation with third countries including israel, turkey, saudi arabia, egypt and las states. these aspects of the report meant i had no option but to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this timely report. the prevention of radicalisation must be at the heart of our counter-terrorism strategy in europe. enhanced cooperation between eu member states is vital in tracking the sources and extent of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. this report makes a number of excellent recommendations on prevention strategies, from greater use of the european cybercrime centre, enhanced information sharing strategies, sharing of best practices globally, and direct prevention work within prisons. i also wholeheartedly endorse the report’s call for the eu pnr directive to be adopted by the end of the year – pnr is a vital tool in the fight against globalised terrorism and crime in the 21st century. for all of these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ there is much within this report which i can support, including calls for the eu-pnr directive to be adopted by the end of the year. i support calls in the report for enhanced cooperation between member states and the need for additional initiatives in the fight against cross border crime including community based initiatives. i also support the need for additional mechanisms which will enhance the expedient and efficient exchange of information between national law enforcement authorities. the ecr group held the rapporteurships for both the opinion in the cult committee (mr dzhambazki) and the opinion in the afet committee (mr tannock). the ecr was happy with the overall outcome of the committee vote, where the compromises included a large number of the ecr shadow rapporteur's amendments.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of citizens by terrorist organisations, because it includes some important steps in tackling a critical problem for wales and europe today. we need a detailed and effective long term strategy on which countries can work together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in order to protect citizens we must look towards the root causes of the abhorrent attacks that have recently happened in paris. through a combined approach we can show solidarity with the french people and stamp out the spread of extremism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for a common definition of ‘foreign fighters’ to permit criminal proceedings against them. the report calls on eu member states to share good practices with regard to exit and return checks and freezing citizens’ financial assets in order to prevent them from taking part in terrorist activities in conflict areas in third countries. it also calls supports the increase in exchange of information among member states’ law enforcement bodies and eu agencies such as europol (police cooperation), eurojust (judicial cooperation) and cepol (police training) as well as making better use of tools such as the schengen information system. such an exchange of information will help member states to tackle the growing problem of radicalisation among people in europe.
in writing. ‒ last month, i visited mosques in luton, harlow and cambridge and asked some of my own muslim constituents what they wanted the strategy we are agreeing today to say? they said europe must recognise – as we do – how mainstream muslims abhor violence, condemn terrorist attacks and believe these contradict their great religion not uphold it. they back plans for rehabilitated foreign fighters to be able to speak in schools to present the reality of what terrorism really is. they applaud us saying terrorism is an issue of crime not of religion. i talked to one mother who lost her child as a foreign fighter and shared her grief. if she cannot truly be held to be responsible for the actions of her son, how can any of us in politics justifiably seek to blame the whole muslim community for the warped actions of the terrible few who choose the path of violence? deal with grievance amongst young muslims i was told: from unemployment locally to international grievances over palestine. but above all, treat muslims as partners in our anti-radicalisation strategy not its object, as we treat muslims as full and equal citizens in european society.
in writing. ‒ parliament has found common ground on how to tackle the recruitment of terrorists and this is to be commended. it is crucial that we do not allow people to confuse radicalisation with the ongoing refugee crisis as some politicians are seeking to do. member states must cooperate with each other and with all their communities to ensure that terrorism is actively combatted.
in writing. – my fellow colleagues and i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un—checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the devastating attacks in paris brought to light all the shortcomings of eu intelligence cooperation, data sharing and surveillance. we are now coming to terms with reform that must be done to defeat isis. europe’s strategy to prevent radicalisation should start from the understanding that the current refugee crisis represents an opportunity to confront discrimination, intolerance and hostility in our own lives. we must not mix the challenge of refugees and the challenge of terrorism. amidst fear and pessimism, we must remain true to our values – upholding freedoms and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and welcome that it emphasises that terrorism cannot and should not be associated with any specific religion, nationality or civilisation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un—checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for yet more eu interference, legislation and agencies. the report included paragraphs such as the principle that ‘foreign fighters’ should be allowed to return to europe; that national education systems and religious leaders should promote eu values; that the commission should create eu guidelines for prisons, and also called for an eu definition of ‘hate speech’, which would no doubt mean anyone who criticise the eu or the free movement of people. one of the biggest issues is that the eu’s free movement of people is allowing terrorists and weapons to move freely across europe un—checked. ukip is not against individual countries working together and sharing intelligence to catch terrorists, but in order to protect our country we must leave the eu and reinstate sensible border controls with european countries to stop this open door immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls on the commission to complete various tasks such as more eu propaganda in schools. i believe that the issue of radicalisation should be resolved by individual nation states and not the eu.
in writing. ‒ of course i understand that radicalisation of so-called ‘european fighters’ is an incredibly complex and dynamic issue and is based on countless socio-economic and political factors, both globally and locally. the increase of terrorism and radicalisation in recent years has coincided with an increase and upsurge of hate crime and hate speech, motivated by racism and intolerance. this report addresses many of the issues which are affecting these individuals who choose to go on to commit such heinous acts. things as simple as addressing the need for a common definition for what constitutes a ‘foreign fighter’ would go a long way to address these problems. allowing states to exchange information not only to find and capture these people, but also exchange best practice of exit and return checks and freezing citizens’ financial assets, in order to prevent them from taking part in terrorist activities where they could. and this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for a common definition of ‘foreign fighters’ to permit criminal proceedings against them. it calls on eu member states to share good practices with regard to exit and return checks and freezing citizens’ financial assets in order to prevent them from taking part in terrorist activities in conflict areas in third countries. i am firmly in favour of the proposed increase in exchange of information among member states’ law enforcement bodies and eu agencies, a measure which is necessary in order to effectively combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ after the appalling attacks in paris, the need to prevent terrorist attacks of this nature recurring is undoubtedly critical. this cannot be achieved with an inadequate response at a european level. this report emphasises the necessity of creating a common framework for dealing with foreign fighters. the recent tragedies have brought into sharp relief the report’s recommendation that european law enforcement must cooperate more to effectively combat terrorism in all of its forms. furthermore, to counter radicalisation in programmes, the separation of prisoners must be considered. the report also refers to radicalisation on the internet, which provides specific challenges given its global and cross-border nature. we need to prevent the internet being used to radicalise people across europe by having a proper counter-radicalisation strategy that encompasses the internet. only with a european approach can we solve this problem.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because it aims to improve the commission’s strategic framework on workplace health and safety by making it more robust and effective in terms of monitoring, implementation and compliance. the report calls on the commission to consolidate member state strategies in consultation with social partners and the eu-osha agency, to improve european-wide data collection on work-related diseases and to facilitate compliance with eu osh legislation by micro and small to medium enterprises by promoting the exchange of best practices. it also recognises the vital role that strong labour inspectorates play in enforcing health and safety at work and urges member states to evaluate the capacity of their labour inspectorates to enforce osh law. i support the raising of standards when it comes to workers’ rights across europe through eu-wide instruments such as this.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for more eu legislation, targets and funding. it is therefore natural for me, as an mep elected with a mandate for leaving the european union, to vote against such a report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ the ecr will establish two key votes on the msd directive and the development of a programme of psychosocial risks. if both references are deleted i can support the report otherwise i will vote against the report.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it broadly addresses the right issues and supports smes which bear the largest burden when it comes to this type of regulation. it is about time the commission and parliament scrutinised legislation and simplified it when necessary. changing outdated legislation is a step in the right direction in the battle against red tape for businesses.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014 and labour meps have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training and tackle diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures as well as proper measures for those working with chronic or terminal illnesses. we have called for the commission not to pursue a policy of regulation in the area of occupational health and safety as well as adopting a targeted approach to precarious employment and the negative effects that this has on occupational health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014 and labour meps have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training, tackle diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures, as well as proper measures for those working with chronic or terminal illnesses.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour colleagues, i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014. this is why we have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training. we need to tackle diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures. we have called for the commission to pursue a policy of regulation in the area of occupational health and safety as well as adopting a targeted approach to precarious employment and the negative effects that this has on occupational health and safety. the health and safety of pregnant women and women who have recently returned to the workplace after giving birth must also be paramount.
in writing. ‒ in my own east of england constituency, the health and safety executive reports that there were 11 workplace deaths in the last year, more than 8 000 workers suffered injury and no less than 125 100 people estimated to have been made ill through their work. it is surely right to seek to do everything possible to seek to avoid each and every one of these? today’s report will save lives, prevent injuries and improve occupational health – through emphasising proper training, tackling disease caused by asbestos and other carcinogens and by implementing screening measures. it also provides an opportunity to give european parliament backing to the british tuc’s ʽdying to workʼ campaign, which i helped receive in brussels alongside fellow labour meps. offering employment protection to those suffering from a terminal illness would give every person affected the choice of how to spend their final months and the peace of mind to know their job was protected and the future financial security of their family guaranteed. let us stop people from dying but, where they do whilst still in the world of work, let us give them dignity in their final months.
in writing. ‒ it is vital that in improving health and safety at work we encourage a culture of prevention. all workers, regardless of where they work, ought to expect their health and safety to be adequately protected. i welcome this report and voted in favour.
in writing. – my colleagues and i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. we are not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the strategy, as although considerable progress has been made in the area of occupational health and safety in the last number of years, much remains to be done. in the uk in the last year, 142 workers were killed at work, 611 000 injuries occurred, and there were half a million new cases of ill health brought on by work. it is shocking that tory meps voted against eu action to protect workers. the eu is protecting uk workers from the tories scrapping their rights and its fight for health and safety at work is one more reason why the people of britain are better off in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. every year more than 4 000 workers die due to accidents at work and the number of fatal work-related diseases amounts to more than 150 000 every single year. good health is a fundamental right in europe and even though considerable progress has been made in the area of occupational health and safety throughout the years, major risks to workers’ health and safety continue to exist.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the final version of this report, which has been submitted to us, sets realistic targets and does not merely try to make declaratory proposals to achieve objectives that cannot be achieved. health and safety at work is one of the important values we hold in europe and i am therefore pleased to support the report for the reasons stated above.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls for more eu legislation, targets, funds and interference on the issue of health and safety law. ukip is not against good and sensible health and safety rules, but the only people who should create laws to protect workers are our democratically elected and accountable government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this framework as it calls for more eu health and safety regulation. smes are already tied up with large amounts of health and safety regulations and they do not need any more.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014 and labour meps have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training, tackle diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures as well as proper measures for those working with chronic or terminal illnesses. we have called for the commission to pursue a policy of regulation in the area of occupational health and safety as well as adopting a targeted approach to precarious employment and the negative effects that this has on occupational health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014 and labour meps have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training and tackle diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures as well as proper measures for those working with chronic or terminal illnesses. we have called on the commission not only to pursue a policy of regulation in the area of occupational health and safety but also to adopt a targeted approach to precarious employment and the negative effects that this has on occupational health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. we spend a lot of our time at work, therefore it is imperative that we are allowed to work in a safe environment. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014, and labour meps have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training and tackle diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures as well as proper measures for those working with chronic or terminal illnesses. we have called for the commission not to pursue a policy of deregulation in the area of occupational health and safety and instead adopt a targeted approach to precarious employment and the negative effects that this has on occupational health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014 and labour meps have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training, the tackling of diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures, as well as proper measures for those working with chronic or terminal illnesses. we have called for the commission not only to pursue a policy of regulation in the area of occupational health and safety but also to adopt a targeted approach to precarious employment and the negative effects that this has on occupational health and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the highest level of protection for health and safety in the workplace. in the uk alone, there were 142 work-related deaths in 2014 and labour meps have called for a strategy to emphasise the importance of proper training and tackle diseases and cancers caused by asbestos and other carcinogens by implementing appropriate screening measures as well as proper measures for those working with chronic or terminal illnesses.
on behalf of the enf group.– mr president, has it occurred to this place to put its own house in order before lecturing others in how they should behave? i have been subjected to verbal abuse and near physical violence in the brussels and strasbourg parliament. firstly, in one of the meetings i attended as an mep, one of my fellow british meps called me ‘a stupid fucking woman’. he was overheard by a number of other meps and also members of staff. is that acceptable? secondly, an mep from the green left called a female colleague ‘trash’ in another debate a few weeks ago. is that acceptable? thirdly, i have been stalked by a misogynistic journalist who works for an eu media outlet. he arrived to interview me drunk, holding a glass of wine at 10 o’clock in the morning. his second attempt was to doorstep me on leaving the plenary here. he is a big guy in terms of girth, and actually height. he had clearly been drinking again; he had a large camera precariously held on his shoulder and yet he pursued me at pace along the corridor outside here into a glass partition. if he had slipped, he could have crushed me. i am told he has a hatred of women, particularly those who are successful, and my politics. is this acceptable? yes, it seems that abusing women from the centre-right is ok. if a man from this side of the house turned to one of your women and called her the things that we have to put up with in this place, there would be outrage, there would be sanctions imposed, a statement by the president. do i have any support in here? silence. that tells me everything i need to know.
mr president, in today’s society, violence against women is taking ever more unacceptable forms. we have only to look at the impact of human trafficking and the impact that this has on the lives of millions of women who are being sold into a life of sexual exploitation and abuse. while i accept mr verhofstadt’s point that this type of violence is not only directed towards women, on this, the international day for the elimination of violence against women, i am bolstered by the strides made in my own constituency of northern ireland with the introduction of the human trafficking and exploitation bill. it is a great example of regional legislation which tackles this evil in society, and should act as a precedent for other member states. i want to take this opportunity to also highlight the work of women’s aid in northern ireland, a voluntary organisation addressing domestic and sexual abuse by providing refuge accommodation to women and their children who have suffered mental, physical or sexual abuse within the home. this organisation has helped to rebuild lives through a range of programmes and support services.
blue-card question.– you mentioned at the start the issue of turkey and the tensions with russia. would you not agree with me that, as a country of 75 million people – and only about 9% of the land mass is actually in europe – the worry is that migratory pressures emanating from any turkey membership of the eu would overwhelm the capacity of european union countries to absorb migrants and that turkish accession should now be off the table: no turkey in the eu?
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i welcome a number of the initiatives taken by those representing our interests in valletta. whilst migration may not have dominated the news in the last week or two, that does not mean that the challenges we face have faded away. valletta highlighted the need for more international cooperation, but it also illustrated that europe needs to harness all of its political will and political persuasion to find solutions for the humanitarian crisis before us. valletta was an important step, but i believe that, in many ways, there were also a number of missed opportunities. valletta should be seen only as a starting point for the more ambitious agreements we must arrive at in the future. the missed opportunities i referred to include the need to find agreement on readmission policies. readmission and returns must form a central focus of our long-term cooperation with our non-eu partners. it is a fact that our asylum systems simply cannot work if these agreements are not in place. merely having more avenues for legal migration and for more eu funds will not solve the problem. those legal avenues will never be able to satisfy the demand and the desire to come here. i agree that the economic development of african nations is an important long—term goal for the eu. development in african countries will provide opportunities and a real future for young people in their own home countries, avoiding skills shortages there and developing those countries as future trading partners for ourselves. but europe needs solutions now, and europe needs to stabilise the current situation. returning those who do not qualify for asylum has to be part of the solution. by reducing the number of economic migrants entering the eu illegally, we increase the opportunities we are able to offer the most vulnerable refugees caught up in the conflict.this was an important summit, and african nations especially have an important role to play. but we will now look to extend the hand of cooperation further afield. we have a crisis of global proportions which requires a global, as well as a european, response.
mr president, so the european union decision-makers decamped to valletta. not a bad destination for a wintry mid-november. but what about those serbian refugees – 5 000 per day, so they estimate – i wonder how they feel? deliverables? quite frankly, nothing. at best, not much. surprisingly, the european union has to a certain degree my empathy, namely: constructed policies and plans but overtaken by events. but, european union, these were events of your own making. surely the european union’s own risk and outcome analysis should have identified that a plan effective for a small number of well-educated refugees might work, but for an absolute deluge of economic migrants and some genuine war-impacted refugees it is never going to work. does anything emanating from the valletta event change or address what is happening? it does not. do the carefully-crafted words make it any less likely the individuals will avoid hazardous, death-enhancing journeys for an economic future in the european union? it does not. the european union promises to address root causes and fails miserably. words, words and more words, as usual – in fact, three pages and 2 000 words of nonsensical doublespeak – lots of acknowledgments, recognitions and words like that. would it not be nice – and honest with our citizens – if, for once, the european union would admit failure, stop the sticking-plaster approach and definitively halt the people movement and pan—european flow? yes, it requires a proper rethink, but anything else is merely perpetuating the problem, the outcome and, ultimately, the terminal fractures in the european union concept, and the latter point is the only one i agree with.
mr president, well i do not know about the rest of you, but the conclusions from the summit did not fill me with optimism at all. were they the best that they could come up with? when i read through the conclusions i must say i despaired – and how dare me, with the life that i have. throw a few jobs and scholars at the people who are being persecuted – to entice them to stay in conflict zones? to try and help to stop the flow of irregular migration, what we need are immediate, meaningful steps to address the humanitarian crisis at europe’s borders. the people fleeing these conflicts and oppression from libya, from eritrea, from yemen, are not ʽirregularʼ anything. they are not migrants. they are desperate human beings attempting to escape the horrors of war. they are refugees that need safe and legal access and routes. they are refugees who need their fundamental rights, and freedom, and dignity protected by the eu. the scenes of a 3-year-old boy, washed up on a beach like a wave – he should never have been found dead on a beach. he should have been playing on a beach, and we should never forget that image. therefore, it is up to us, and we have a responsibility and a duty to do much, much more. those conclusions were absolutely shameful! disgraceful! we should all hang our heads in shame if that is what we are recommending to address this awful problem. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– unfortunately for us in the north of ireland it is a reserved matter, which means it is still in the hands of the british government. however, our government in the north of ireland has said that we will take a thousand, and by now we are still putting things in place. work is being done by the executive, by the office of the first and deputy first minister, by the department of social development (dsd) and by many groups and organisations which are obviously prepared to do a lot more than you have done, because that image obviously did not affect you enough.
blue-card question.– you mentioned – in translation at least – that, if schengen falls, that is the end of the european project. well, for a country like mine – the united kingdom, which is outside schengen – that is slightly bizarre. it is saying that we should not really be in the european union at all. i have no problem whatsoever in showing my passport when i cross back into my country. it is perfectly clear, sadly, that schengen, no matter how well intentioned, was facilitating the movement of criminals, terrorists, arms and weapons, with no border checks. but also there was no exchange of information between police forces and security services and a weak external border of the european union. clearly, you cannot have this. you either have to have a strong external border and a schengen or, basically, the reintroduction of national controls. my country also has a problem now because of what is happening in calais. so how can you say schengen is indispensable to the european project? explain, please.
mr president, i was proud to represent the s&d group in valletta. i greatly appreciate that it was our own former colleague, prime minister muscat, giving such european leadership, and i was inspired by efforts to find solidarity between europe and africa in tackling the refugee crisis. we do need more, not less political will, and we must not be deflected by the terrorism outrages. refugees are the victims of violence, not its perpetrators. did the summit fall short? of course. my group argues for safe legal routes for migration as an essential part of combating illegal migration. we are in favour of a more-for-more approach but do not see sufficiently more. we are opposed to tied aid conditionality and insist there must be genuine new money, not recycling of existing development assistance, if new cooperation from our partners is to be expected in return. we need high numbers to be resettled when developing countries already house over 86% of the world’s refugees. in seeking readmission agreements, europe must be far more robust in standing out against any suggestion of forced return. the long-term solution to the refugee crisis can only come in conflict resolution, sustainable development and good governance, which prevents people from wanting to leave their homes in the first place. last month i met refugees, not in africa but in lebanon, but all were parents seeking to save the lives of their children. there are no waves, no walls and no watchtowers high enough that would prevent those families from fleeing. which of us would do differently? we meet today as the fragile european unity on this issue, including from my own country great britain, appears to be approaching a breaking point. there are those opposite who celebrate european disunity and who would close european borders altogether. the way we resist those political pressures on this side is through respect for international law and by appealing to the basic humanitarian instincts amongst the people we represent and which we feel ourselves. there must be order, there must be fairness within our societies, there must be integration, but above all there must be humanity. that is why we say ‘refugees welcome’. we say it today, we said it yesterday and we will say it tomorrow. (applause)
mr president, the valletta summit was supposed to address the current migration crisis from africa, the middle east and beyond. now, the causes of migration are poverty and conflict. africa and the middle east languish in poverty because of their endemic corruption. some parts have the added problem of centuries-old murderous conflicts between rival factions of the religion of peace and love. the summit’s action plan could be boiled down to two main points: to give another eur 2.5 billion to these countries, and to open up migration to yet more millions of people. the idea of giving aid to impoverished countries is not wrong in itself, but the last thing that we should do is give money to their irredeemably corrupt leaders and governments. aid should be spent on programmes that directly help poor people in health schemes, infrastructure development, and encouraging economic development. as for opening up what are called ‘regular channels to migration’, this is a betrayal of the peoples of europe. living standards are already declining in europe for various reasons: wage depression because of never-ending waves of cheap migrant labour; the economic idiocy of the eurozone and its austerity policies; competition for social benefits from people who have never paid in a penny in contributions; and the unaffordability of housing because of an artificially-fuelled and never-ending demand on a finite supply. the eu’s response is to open up the borders to yet more millions of poverty-stricken people. it is ironic that valletta is named in honour of jean de valette, the grand master of the order of st. john of jerusalem, who led malta’s successful defence against the turkish invasion in 1564. he made an heroic stand. the eu is making a shameful capitulation.
blue-card question.– how can you talk about diplomacy when it comes to migration when this union, chancellor merkel, threw open the doors and said: come one, come all? this union, and the political leadership of this union, have decided that there is going to be a free for all. so how can you say that we should do x, y and z to curb the flows, when the political leaders of the european union have basically said there is an open door? you have not restricted the pull factors and it will turn into a free for all.
blue-card question. – thank you, mr sant. you seem to blame the whole of africa’s problems on globalisation, and yet you do not blame the european union in any way, shape or form. so do you not feel it is concerning that the european union charges sugar beet at excessive prices to african countries to the benefit of sugar producers in germany, or indeed in the production of cocoa beans, so that chocolate is more expensive to be produced in africa, to protect those producers in belgium? do you not think that they have massive repercussions on jobs and prosperity in africa?
mr president, we have heard much in this chamber about how the terror attacks have nothing to do with the open-door policy eu leaders foisted upon members, which saw migrants claim refugee status they were not entitled to. daesh boasted they would flood our continent with jihad fighters, although members here in the chamber derided those of us who pointed this out. we know that two of the murderers involved in the paris killings came to the continent via greece, using false syrian passports. what is this if it is not a direct link between uncontrolled immigration and terrorism? i reject this idea put forward by people like president juncker that terrorism is a risk we must live with to uphold the eu’s ideals of freedom of movement. the migrant crisis has put the well-being of migrants ahead of the safety of its citizens by making us vulnerable to attack in our towns and cities. come the uk’s referendum, voters must look at the negligence of the eu when it comes to securing our borders, and vote for independence. (applause)
mr president, we are the generation who grew up in a post-war europe. it was a europe that fed a starving population, a europe that won the cold war and a europe that successfully reunited a broken continent. but our children will grow up in a totally different europe, a europe that will have to confront a completely different set of challenges. the shift of economic power, west to east; the consequence of climate change, of global mass migration; and the rise of fundamentalist islam: these are next-generation issues, for which europe will have to find next-generation solutions. valletta was a good start. but it is just that, only a start. history offers us two lessons here. first, turning the clock back, or retreating into isolation, was never the answer. second, when the really big challenges come along, european nations are so much more effective when they confront them together, rather than alone.
mr president, another eu summit, and again the problems facing this union are staring them in the face and nothing is done. the first is that chancellor merkel and the leadership of this union said: ‘come ye, come ye’. so you are welcoming the entire world to the european union. the second is schengen and complete open borders within most of the european union. third, free movement for anyone with an eu passport ready to work and live in most of the european union, which is why in recent years we have had record numbers of net immigration into the united kingdom. until you deal with that, you will not fix the migrant crisis, and every summer there will be problems at calais, there will be problems at every single border – the external border of the european union. until you deal with that, you will not fix the problems, which is why in the uk we have seen the ‘leave the eu’ campaign ahead in the polls. if you fail to address that then the united kingdom will leave the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the national league for democracy (nld) victory in burma/myanmar’s election this month is certainly an historic milestone, but it is the peaceful acceptance from the military and its politically-backed union solidarity and development party (usdp) which must be truly celebrated. a marked difference on what happened in 1990. the democratic transition over the next few months and years will be difficult, and it is important that the european union offers all advice and support where appropriate and necessary. but much power is still vested in the national defence and security council, which is outside of the elected government’s control. the military still retain 25% of reserve seats in the parliament, and aung san suu kyi’s moral victory as leader is somewhat undermined by her bizarre legal inability to take office as president as the late wife and mother of british citizens. so keeping the roadmap to democracy on track will be a challenge. there are also concerns as to the plight of the minority muslim rohingya people in myanmar, numbering around a million people. they have been denied voting rights in the latest election on the basis of being unable to prove their citizenship. aung san suu kyi has said little on this issue and it appears that there is little appetite from the nld to prioritise the fate of the rohingyas, instead preferring to focus on state- and democracy-building in myanmar. in achieving these goals there is still a long way to go. but myanmar may yet prove to be a good example of a transition to pluralist democracy, a process that must be measured in decades, and not in years. myanmar’s transition to democracy will also be a very welcome addition and boost to the democratic credentials of asean.
mr president, the electoral triumph of aung san suu kyi is one that warrants significant celebration. with official results confirming 77% of the seats, the potential for change within myanmar should be welcomed and encouraged. clearly there are significant challenges ahead. the plight of ethnic minorities needs to be urgently addressed and, although both the military and allies of the newly—defeated government have promised to respect these election results, the real test will be to accommodate these groupings within the new regime to ensure stability and a more fruitful future. the eu has the capacity to provide an important supportive role in the changes that will inevitably occur. we should utilise this promising development to strengthen not only myanmar’s burgeoning democracy but also our relations with the asean region more broadly. the eu’s relationship with asean states is growing, and any assistance the eu can provide should be reinforced. as a member of the delegation to asean, i was privileged to visit aung san suu kyi in her home a couple of years ago, which remains one of the high points of my time as an mep. so i would like to take this moment to finally congratulate aung san suu kyi on what was a momentous result for her.
mr president, an important milestone has been reached in myanmar. i note the report from the eu electoral observation mission, and my congratulations go to aung san suu kyi and nld, who have won over two thirds of the seats. however, i am concerned that major shortcomings remain – chief among them, as my colleagues have already mentioned, is the fact that rohingya were disenfranchised and could not vote. legislation on the basis of race and religion is clearly not consistent with transition towards national reconciliation. last saturday we learnt that more than 100 people had been killed in a landslide near a jade mine. military cronyism is said to be a key cause of poor conditions in the mining industry and to be fuelling conflicts in the kotchen and shan states. conflicts like the one in east congo have taught us that peace is not possible unless the link between military and business is broken. an important step has been taken in myanmar with the signing of the extractive industries transparency initiative, but this will lead to change only if implementation is made a priority. the eu needs to support the new leadership in tackling these major concerns and maintaining a positive dynamic in the asean. we have seen major economies like thailand and malaysia backslide on human rights issues lately, so i welcome the investment protection negotiations that have been re-launched, and i would like to ask a representative of the commission, if they were here, or the high representative, to reflect on possibilities for further engagement that will allow us to provide incentives for change, ensuring maximum coordination between the various instruments in order to make sure that trade and investment reinforce, rather than undermine, human rights and democracy.
mr president, having just led, on behalf of this parliament, the first parliamentary association committee meeting with the delegation from this parliament with our counterparts in georgia, may i firstly start by thanking my co-chair and our counterparts in georgia, and indeed all of my colleagues who played a very full part in all of those groups that were present for the duration of the meetings that we had there. it was quite a challenging mission in many ways, but i believe we achieved one thing, and that was to move our relations beyond party political affiliations to a genuinely parliament-to-parliament level, and i think we will serve ourselves well if future resolutions build upon the final statement that we were able to achieve. i thank the commission for the report on the dcfta and the association agreement. the next step, of course, must be towards visa liberalisation. in terms of the georgian people, that is their dream in terms of the immediate future. there is a russian angle and it sends a very powerful signal to the people of abkhazia and ossetia that they must invest in this future direction as well. we have, of course, elections approaching very soon, and this is where it is essential that georgia shows its commitment to european values, and that is best demonstrated by their commitment today to media freedoms.
mr president, the citizens of moldova clearly identified what their priority is when they took to the streets last month to bring down the government: it is tackling corruption. it is in our interest to tackle this because it is jeopardising our security. moldova is an important route for illegal trade in weapons, and not just in ak47s: criminal gangs have also been attempting to sell stolen nuclear goods to is and other jihadi groups. i understand one attempt was prevented by the fbi, but others could have been successful. it is of major concern that the moldovan police department investigating this was reportedly shut down under pressure from the government. that is why we need to make the fight against corruption and reform of the judiciary absolute priorities. clearly, we cannot turn those who are trying to increase their grip on the state institutions for personal gain into our partners, even if they promise pro-european policies in return. of course, we need to be mindful of russia playing its usual game of placing pawns to discourage democratic reforms, but stooping to that level will not make our neighbourhood safer or more prosperous. it is important that we, the eu, offer moldova a clear view of what we have to offer in return for reform. but the government there also has to realise that, first and foremost, these reforms are in its own interest, and it must not be seduced into turning its back on the eu in favour of those masquerading as its allies.
author.– mr president, i am pleased that we have chosen today to debate this issue because today, colleagues, we actually have something to celebrate in the midst of all the gloom in the news about us. we adopted the budget today, and when we adopted that budget we agreed one of the key demands of our resolution which we will adopt tomorrow, namely to increase the humanitarian aid budget for education in emergencies substantially – by eur 26 million. this is a figure that we proposed in the committee on development, and i want to congratulate arne lietz, our rapporteur. it is a big step towards the 4% target that we all want to see as part of the eu’s overall humanitarian aid budget, and i know that this is a cause close to the heart of nearly everybody in this room. certainly, i know that for commissioner stylianides it is a big priority, as it is for for my own political group. i know that colleagues from the epp, the greens, the liberals – all those i see here, and our colleagues in many groups – have shared this view, and i thank you for your support. it was when i went to turkey with the development committee earlier this autumn that i got a real sense of why it matters that we put money into education, because i visited a refugee camp of 17 500 people. i also visited some of the many families in the community and i got a real sense of what it means to the families who come to have to leave their homes and everything else behind and to start again, and also of what it means to a country to have to receive hundreds of thousands of refugees and try and offer education. we saw some excellent projects run by unicef and other organisations. in the refugee camp in kahramanmaraş we saw unicef organising schools, paying syrian teachers a stipend to offer education to the children, and providing a school curriculum. what was offered to those children was not just an education but a sense of normality, and the school was a happier place in that camp. we met children who were orphaned and had been through enormous trauma, but in the school they had a sense of normality: it was a place where they could be like other children. the commission was providing kites and games and toys, as well as an education. there is one issue, however, which i am concerned about, and that is what happens when children get to the age of 16, 17 or 18 and want to go on to higher education. i think that is where we need to do more – because we met young people in southern turkey who had lost their sense of hope for the future. they had had plans to go to university, to study and to train, and yet, at 17 or 18, they did not see any outlet. those are the young people who are getting on boats, risking their lives crossing the mediterranean, and we have to find a solution for them. i think we could do this with our universities and colleges, by offering scholarships. i am sure there is something more we can do. the message from our resolution was very clear. i know, commissioner, that you are aware of the problem of the barrier between humanitarian aid and development funding. the commission is trying to break that barrier down, and we welcome that. we have the new global goals now, on the basis of which we can work to consolidate education, particularly in countries which are precarious and fragile. our figures show that up to 1 billion children are living in conflict areas in the world today. we will also soon have the report that my colleague, enrique guerrero salom, is preparing for the world humanitarian aid summit, and at that summit, commissioner and colleagues, we will have to argue to get other players to back our increase in funding for this type of education. thank you very much for your support. let us hope we can build on what we have achieved today.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, education is vital for every child’s future – that is a fact. but the quality of education a child receives is also vital. in developing nations, private schools are on the rise due to the failure of governments to provide children with a decent education. in mathare, a slum in nairobi, 120 private schools now exist and some can cost as little as a dollar a week. this is a fantastic new phenomenon, which is happening organically. incredibly, governments and ngos are taking the view that private education should be discouraged, whilst in reality it could be the key in providing more and more disadvantaged children with education. stop giving failing or corrupt governments our money to provide education for children and encourage the free market and entrepreneurialism in developing nations. proper education will end the cycle of poverty. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– obviously it is crucial that economies in third-world countries are developed and expanded, because that is how people will get out of the poverty trap they are in. corruption is one of the biggest stumbling blocks to expanding the economies of developing nations, as it basically takes the wealth from the people and puts it in the hands of corrupt officials and corrupt police officers, etc. so there are many ways in which we can improve the lot of people in the third world. however, education is one of the areas in which we need to ensure that nations can develop their own education systems organically, just like your nation and my nation did.
mr president, i just wanted to say something about the role of informal and non-formal education for these kinds of children, because often it is non-formal education providers who can make a huge difference. they are there on the ground, they can be significant others, and they play an enormous role in the development of children’s and young people’s confidence. they are often there when statutory agencies are not there and they can often develop a relationship of trust with young people. so it is very important that we recognise the role of these organisations, and this would include the role of sport and arts organisations which can develop children’s self-confidence, their sense of themselves, their sense of identity and help them to problem-solve and to be very resilient in the situations they find themselves in.
in writing.– the increase in emergencies worldwide has left millions of children out of school. education is often neglected in response to emergency situations, not being seen as life-saving. however, schools provide safety giving a constructive alternative to joining the conflict. education helps to overcome traumatic consequences and learn how to cope in emergency situations. often a humanitarian phase lasts for years. years without education mean lost generations, generations that could contribute to rebuilding their countries, and fostering inclusive and resilient societies. despite all this, education is one of the most underfunded areas in humanitarian responses. funding education is not an expense. it is an investment! i welcome commissioner stylianides’ commitment to dedicate 4% of the eu humanitarian aid budget to education in emergencies. more however needs to be done. the international community must prioritise it, by increasing humanitarian aid and improving delivery on the ground. development and humanitarian aid must be bridged to ensure the effectiveness of their programmes in fragile states. it is a human right that should be guaranteed for all children. especially, in emergency situations. food, shelter and security are essential, so is education. it gives hope and helps to build a better future.
madam president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, i wish to repeat that the accounts have been signed off and that errors, of course, are not fraud, although we should naturally keep trying to reduce them. member states can play their part. indeed, they already have the information to stop or correct many of the errors, and they should use that information. at eu level we should do more on simplification to help reduce errors. for the current cohesion policy programmes, some attempts have been made to reduce errors through simplification, for example through the introduction of cohesion flat-rate payments and having one set of common regulations for the five different funds, although each of the individual funds still has its own rules. hopefully the high-level group established by the commissioner will look at this particular issue and many others, because it is important that we reduce bureaucracy and make things as simple as possible for beneficiaries, for auditors, for member states and for regions. indeed, when we visit regions and projects, they continue to make the same plea for greater simplification. i also wanted to comment quickly on the issue of measuring performance. i think it is absolutely right that we should be looking to measure performance. the question is what we measure and how we measure it. obviously, we need to do a lot more work on that, but it must surely be right for us to measure the results of spending of eu funds. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i do not think that there is a link between simplification and corruption, but i think that there definitely is a link between simplification and reducing the number of errors. that is why i said in my contribution that whenever we visit member states’ regions, businesses or anybody involved in projects, they plead for greater simplification. they believe that this is one of the best ways – probably the best way – to reduce errors.
madam president, i would like to say to mr caldeira that there is a depressing familiarity to the court of auditors’ report. for far too many years it is the same areas of spend showing the same errors of spend. i agree with you, mr caldeira, that it is time for a fresh approach. firstly, because mr vaughan is right: he was right when he said there is a direct relationship between the complexity of regulation and the consequent level of error. secondly, because the high emphasis on compliance comes at the expense of evaluation of outcomes and quality of spend. to achieve those, we need greater levels of transparency and of accountability. both of these we can only really achieve when the people elected by the taxpayers adopt responsibility and the scrutiny role for expenditure of the taxpayers’ money.
madam president, you might expect that i would, as a eurosceptic, give the same speech as last year. you might expect me to make much of the continuing high error rate in the eu’s accounts or the auditor’s adverse opinion on the legality and regularity of payment underlying the accounts. but actually, commissioner georgieva is doing one thing right in talking about performance-based budgeting, as it is not just about the high error rate that we see, it is also about whether money spent actually provides value for money. there is one example in the court of auditors’ report that i find particularly instructive, in which it describes a sewage system in greece: they built the plant, they built the network, but nobody had connected the system to people’s homes, even though the project had been six years in the making from 2007 to 2013. eu funds – taxpayers’ money – achieve nothing if a system cannot actually be used. at the confirmation hearing over a year ago, before commissioner georgieva took office, i asked whether they had introduced failure criteria so that we would know whether a project was a success or a failure, in other words what it looked like. well in my view it is 40 years too late, but the commission is actually talking about doing something about the problem. here is my question: is this actually going to be implemented in a way which will be critical when needed? will we shine a light, not just on fraud or errors but on bad planning? and as the 4.4% error rate is a drop in the ocean, metaphorically as well as in reality, we need to clean out the sewer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– classically, in this place, you are arguing against something that i did not say. i did not say that the error rate had gone up. it says in the report that it has gone from 4.5% to 4.4%, which is pretty much staying exactly the same, and that is only based on a statistical sample. we do not know whether it actually, overall, went up or went down. my point is that we have to look beyond just the error rate and actually look at the question of whether the money that is being spent is achieving its stated aim.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we have all seen the heartbreaking pictures of the protesters carrying the coffins of seven hazaras, including children. a string of kidnappings over the past year is fuelling concern among the community about the sectarian and ethnic conflict. we strongly condemn these atrocious killings and kidnappings and stand with the hazara group in its demand for justice and protection. we express our concern about the worsening security situation in afghanistan. it is essential that cooperation in the region be intensified, particularly between afghanistan and pakistan. all neighbours in the region must play a constructive role in fighting the terrorism threat and promoting an afghan peace process. the eu and the international community should assist through diplomacy and negotiations. i welcome the decision to hold a comprehensive ministerial conference on afghanistan next year in brussels. the exodus reflects the despair of many afghans and emphasises the need for a clear signal of international support to mitigate it. we must not forget afghanistan. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– this situation is truly a tragedy and it is one which is heartfelt by all of us. will you agree with me that there are lessons to be learned from our military involvement in afghanistan without a clearly defined military objective and strategy for what would happen next? if you do agree with me, how can those lessons be applied to the current situation in syria?
blue-card answer.– of course we should always be learning lessons, and the ultimate objective for afghanistan, iraq, syria, or libya is to bring about stability. that is the lesson we need to learn. today we need to be bringing stability in syria, and it is good to see all the key players playing their part in order to achieve this. i look forward to a successful and stable syria.
member of the commission.– madam president, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy i would like to express gratitude for the debate on this topic today and to thank all the honourable members of this parliament who have taken part in it. recent actions against members of the opposition in cambodia, described in detail by previous speakers, are indeed cause for serious concern and raise questions about the culture of dialogue on which the government and the opposition agreed in july last year. i do not have to stress here in this parliament how important the role of the opposition is in the democratic process. it is the nature and even the responsibility of an opposition to question and criticise the government and to hold them accountable to the public. in cambodia the eu has advocated for and supported a culture of dialogue established between the party of government and the main opposition party. we have stressed that dialogue should not prevent the opposition from playing its role and that it should not be used as an excuse for suppressing criticism. we have urged both parties to work professionally and refrain from personal attacks and insults. the government, especially, is in a position of power and has therefore a particular duty to act with restraint and responsibility. patience is the sign of strength and confidence. we agree with speakers who called on the eu to monitor closely the evolution of the situation, and indeed this is what we are doing. it is important for cambodia, for the country itself, to return to a path of engagement and cooperation. we issued a local statement expressing our deep concern about the violent attack on two opposition members of the national assembly, and we have also been using diplomatic channels to urge both parties to cooperate constructively and to return to the spirit of the culture of dialogue, as was agreed last year. we believe that a strong democracy that allows for constructive debate about policy alternatives is in the interests of cambodia and its people if the country is to grow and develop. the eu will continue to use its resources, including our development assistance that includes eur 120 million for good governance and administration in cambodia, to support that process.
author.– madam president, i very much regret the need for this resolution today, but we know that the debate will be watched in the bangladeshi press, and i think that is positive. in my visits to bangladesh as chair of parliament’s relevant delegation, we have seen a very vibrant press in the past, but it certainly feels under attack now. we know that governments and politicians in general do not always like a vibrant press, but it is part of democratic development, as are active ngos and civil society. indeed, much of bangladesh’s considerable development in terms of gender equality, child nutrition and climate change adaptation is a result of civil society working with government. i think that it is really important that there should be general political condemnation of violent attacks and death threats against journalists, bloggers, writers and indeed the public in general. we need a high-quality justice system that acts impartially to put forward the best interests of the people and bring perpetrators to justice. we would certainly hope that the government will put in place a system of protection for those at risk and for members of the political opposition too, because they have also been under attack in many circumstances. there is a need for political agreement in bangladesh to move the country forward.
author.– madam president, the recent murders and violence perpetrated against secular and atheist bloggers, journalists and activists in bangladesh are clearly acts of terrorism and deserve our utmost condemnation. they are part of a wider vision intended to destabilise bangladesh’s fragile secular democracy and to establish an islamist, sharia-based medieval state in that country, led by jamaat-e-islami and splinter groups. the bangladesh government, though far from perfect, is committed to protecting the right to freedom of expression for its citizens but is doing so in very difficult circumstances. as we battle against terrorism in our own countries, with all our economic advantages, we are seeing how difficult that task is in europe. nevertheless, the balance between the need to protect citizens’ rights and the ideals of ensuring universal freedom of expression and religion is always a delicate one and is something of which we should remain mindful when we are discussing or criticising bangladesh. today’s resolution is a positive one, but we must not fall into the trap of demanding safeguards and protection for people while simultaneously criticising all measures introduced to protect a modern secular state such as that of bangladesh.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, secular writers, bloggers and publishers have been hacked to death. ‘there is no freedom of expression in bangladesh’ – so wrote sakharov prize winner, taslima nasrin, when she heard about today’s debate. here she can have a voice, but in bangladesh today such a voice risks being silenced for good. unable to speak out any more are slain bloggers avijit roy, washiqur rahman, niloy neel and ananta bijoy das. bangladesh ranks 12th from bottom on the committee for the protection of journalists 2015 impunity index, spotlighting countries where journalists are murdered and their killers go unpunished. i am proud that this resolution calls for independent investigations into such killings but never to resort to the death penalty in response. it is not just the killings that prevent free speech; the government has criminalised criticism. section 57 of the ict act criminalises criticising islamic religious views or reporting on human rights violations. i echo amnesty international’s calls to repeal section 57 so that bangladesh complies with its international human rights obligations. last week, the bangladesh government banned facebook and what’s app ‘indefinitely’, citing security reasons. george orwell said, ‘if liberty means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they do not want to hear’. the bangladesh government and the european external action service, in their dealings with this government, must remember this.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, bangladesh is one of the world’s newest and also poorest countries, but it has a very special relationship with the united kingdom, which is a member of the united nations. the european union should recognise that bangladesh is undergoing its own security threat coupled with a general-election outcome that has magnified the aspects of killing, maiming and intimidation of its citizens. it also has in place laws that further impact on freedom of expression – for instance, freedom of belief is not allowed. now the usual european union interference should not happen – specific actions, criticisms and threats do not work. leave it to the body that is acknowledged in the world, across the world – the united nations. ignore what my fellow united kingdom party, the labour party, would like to do, which is to take the united kingdom off the united nations, but let the united nations solve this and leave the united kingdom to be the principal voice leading what is required in bangladesh.
madam president, this is a matter of urgency because of the increasing lack of freedom of expression in bangladesh. the media clampdown, the crackdown on social media, attacks on secular thinkers and opposition groups, and the shutting down of online platforms are clear signals of repression. it is worrying that the violence is coming from two directions: from radicalised groups and from the security forces. western media have reported the spread of radicalisation in bangladesh and threats issued by is against that country. my message to the bangladesh government is that there are no better weapons for safeguarding a society from extremist violence than inclusiveness, democracy, respect for human rights and freedom of speech. i would urge the government, led by the awami league party, truly to heed this message. i know a significant step has been taken with the adoption by enforcement agencies of a zero tolerance policy towards human rights violations, as well as the police reform act, but these measures really need to be implemented, and i urge the high representative and the commission to support bangladesh in these efforts. equally, they need to convene a national dialogue that includes all democratic parties and civil society.
madam president, thomas jefferson once said that peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations are important, but we should not be entangling alliances with anyone. the world trade organization is an important organisation in that we need trade liberalisation and tariff reductions and we need to deal with anti-dumping. unfortunately, our governments in the past have not listened to thomas jefferson’s words, and we have become entangled with the european union, thus losing our spot in the world trade organization. as a consequence, we cannot influence properly the world trade liberalisation programme. we cannot influence tariff reductions that would benefit the people of the united kingdom. instead, we have to listen to eu technocrats, with their expansionist ideas, who will have it in their own interests, not those of our nation. only by leaving the eu with a vote for ‘brexit’, hopefully next year, will britain regain its space in the world trade organization and be able to have growth in our economy once again.
madam president, free trade is the greatest engine for peace and collaboration globally. as the great french economist frédéric bastiat observed, when goods do not cross borders, armies do. free trade makes conflict both pointless and unduly hurtful to the perpetrator. yet – and this point is still not widely understood, despite more than 40 years of membership of the european union – the uk does not have a separate voice or vote in the world trade organization (wto). we are represented by one-twenty-eighth of an eu official, i think at the moment a swedish former sociology professor. that is not just a problem in theory, it is very much a problem in practice, when we think that europe is the only continent on the planet not experiencing economic growth. the other continents are surging ahead, but the eurozone economy is the same size that it was in 2008. we do not sit on any great natural resources in my damp, green, exquisite island home. we have to make our way in the world through what we buy and sell. that means we have to be where the customers are. the customers are not in europe, and we need to leave the european union and take back our place in the wto.
in writing. ‒ the doha development agenda (dda) is a series of trade-liberalisation measures – including, inter alia, tariff reductions and anti-dumping provisions – on which all world trade organisation members are seeking binding agreement. strengthening the wto in this manner is in the uk’s interest, as it bolsters international trading norms that the uk would enjoy as a fully active member on brexit. though the motion for a resolution supports this process and calls for greater democratic accountability in wto decision making, it promotes an activist role for the eu in advancing its own trade agenda through the wto framework. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. – the doha development agenda (dda) is a series of trade-liberalisation measures – including, inter alia, tariff reductions and anti-dumping provisions – on which all world trade organization (wto) members are seeking binding agreement. strengthening the wto in this manner is in the uk’s interest, as it bolsters international trading norms that the uk would enjoy as a fully active member on brexit. though the motion for a resolution supports this process and calls for greater democratic accountability in wto decision-making, it promotes an activist role for the eu in advancing its own trade agenda through the wto framework. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution on the wto’s doha development agenda talks. this resolution fails to recognise the negative impacts wto agreements can have on the world’s poorest countries. the doha development agenda talks, which were set up with the original intention of improving trade for developing countries, have been predictably dominated by industrialised countries instead. wto actions should aim to contribute to achieving the recently adopted sustainable development goals instead of solely pushing trade liberalisation. increasing trade for its own sake is not enough – trade must be fair if it is to lift people out of poverty.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote, because two contradictory principles are involved. i oppose the calls for eu activism within the world trade organization (wto). however, i support the general principle of strengthening the wto itself and the liberalisation of trade. i note the positives, and further note that this weakens still further any economic case for the uk remaining in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the doha development agenda (dda) is a series of trade-liberalisation measures – including, inter alia, tariff reductions and anti-dumping provisions – on which all world trade organisation members are seeking binding agreement. strengthening the wto in this manner is in the uk’s interest, as it bolsters international trading norms that the uk would enjoy as a fully active member on brexit. though the motion for a resolution supports this process and calls for greater democratic accountability in wto decision making, it promotes an activist role for the eu in advancing its own trade agenda through the wto framework. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the doha development agenda (dda) is a series of trade-liberalisation measures – including, inter alia, tariff reductions and anti-dumping provisions – on which all world trade organisation members are seeking binding agreement. strengthening the wto in this manner is in the uk’s interest, as it bolsters international trading norms that the uk would enjoy as a fully active member on brexit. though the motion for a resolution supports this process and calls for greater democratic accountability in wto decision making, it promotes an activist role for the eu in advancing its own trade agenda through the wto framework. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the multilateral process in geneva to complete the doha development round of world trade talks. although finding unilateral agreement is unlikely, given the divergences in the positions of key players ahead of the conference, this resolution calls for additional deliverables to be considered. in addition, supporting moves to help countries trade their way out of poverty is also something i am in favour of.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of the multilateral process in geneva to complete the doha development round of world trade talks. this remains unlikely, given the divergences in the positions of key players ahead of the conference. however the resolution calls for additional deliverables to be considered.
in writing. – the doha development agenda (dda) is a series of trade-liberalisation measures – including, inter alia, tariff reductions and anti-dumping provisions – on which all world trade organization members are seeking binding agreement. strengthening the wto in this manner is in the uk’s interest, as it bolsters international trading norms that the uk would enjoy as a fully active member on brexit. though the motion for a resolution supports this process and calls for greater democratic accountability in wto decision-making, it promotes an activist role for the eu in advancing its own trade agenda through the wto framework. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which recalls parliament’s full commitment to the enduring value of multilateralism and calls for a trade agenda based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all, with development at the heart of the process.
in writing. ‒ today’s debate, in the light of the deep controversy which both ttip and ceta have provoked in public opinion in many of our countries, enables socialist and democrat meps to reiterate that it is far better to pursue a multilateral trade deal in the world in which developing countries can be treated as equal partners, in preference to europe being forced to pursue bilateral trade deals in which there will always be an imbalance of power and influence over poorer countries. ten years after the launch of the doha round, for the first time a wto ministerial conference will take place in an african country. we should take this symbolic opportunity to revive the wto, and within it recommit ourselves to central principles of fair trade and sustainable development. the wto will only function properly if it works for all of us, and european union representatives must ensure that developing countries are at the heart of all and any reforms to trade regulation. for all who criticise ttip, this is surely europe’s best response?
in writing. – the doha development agenda (dda) is a series of trade-liberalisation measures – including, inter alia, tariff reductions and anti-dumping provisions – on which all world trade organization members are seeking binding agreement. strengthening the wto in this manner is in the uk’s interest, as it bolsters international trading norms that the uk would enjoy as a fully active member on brexit. though the motion for a resolution supports this process and calls for greater democratic accountability in wto decision-making, it promotes an activist role for the eu in advancing its own trade agenda through the wto framework. on these grounds, my fellow ukip meps and i voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it reiterates parliament’s full commitment to the enduring value of multilateralism and calls for a trade agenda based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all, with development at the centre of the process.
in writing. ‒ we need a clear definition of low-income developing countries and emerging economies, and we must ensure that the principle of special and differential treatment (s&dt) constitutes an integral part of the negotiations. this has always been part of eu trade policy and we just cannot dismantle our system of preferential trade with our friends in the african, caribbean and pacific countries without bringing a solution to their needs. ten years after the beginning of the doha round, the wto itself is at a crossroads. it is time to accomplish structural reform, in order to better guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system based on shared and applied rules. it should contemplate new challenges such as climate change and sustainability as well as new actors such as smes and innovative start-ups.
in writing. ‒ the doha development agenda (dda) is a series of trade-liberalisation measures – including, inter alia, tariff reductions and anti-dumping provisions – on which all world trade organisation members are seeking binding agreement. strengthening the wto in this manner is in the uk’s interest, as it bolsters international trading norms that the uk would enjoy as a fully active member on brexit. though the motion for a resolution supports this process and calls for greater democratic accountability in wto decision making, it promotes an activist role for the eu in advancing its own trade agenda through the wto framework. on these grounds, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as it calls for eu activism within the eu. however, strengthening the wto is in the uk’s interest. i believe the uk should leave the eu and take up its seat at the wto.
in writing. ‒ the eu has consistently advocated for a rules-based and strong, multilateral approach to trade and i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it recognises that complementary approaches such as bilateral, regional and multi-national agreements may foster the opening of trade and may support the multilateral system. at committee level s&d meps were able to achieve many of its objectives, guaranteeing a commitment to the enduring value of multilateralism and respect for special and differential treatment in the negotiations, amongst many other things. i am very pleased with the work of bernd lange and this is a very good text.
madam president, i am delighted to see ecuador being drawn into a regional and global network of free commerce. the more open the trade, the less you have the tendency to oligarchy, which is the natural danger in a country like that, dependent on natural resources. free trade is particularly in the interests of small and medium firms and of consumers in a country like ecuador. it is also – and we always seem to forget this point – mentioned as one of the primary objectives of the european union in the treaty of rome. it is right up there in article 1. we want to work towards global free trade, and yet, more than half a century on, we still have fewer free trade agreements in place with other countries than non-eu switzerland has. the swiss have a better deal: they can piggyback eu free-trade deals; they can go further when they think the eu is being unduly protectionist; and they are able not only to trade with their immediate neighbours on the continent but also to do what they have done and sign free-trade agreements with china. would not that suit a country like mine far better than our current subordination?
in writing. ‒ a protocol signed in 2014 allows ecuador to accede to the eu’s trade agreement with colombia and peru on ratification. a provision is in force to maintain the eu’s tariff preferences for ecuador that it previously enjoyed under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp), throughout 2016 or until such time as the protocol on accession shall be ratified. the motion for a resolution supports ecuador’s accession to the agreement. though the tariff reductions contained in the colombia-peru agreement would help sectors of the ecuadorian economy access eu markets, it also contains politicised sections. because a full assessment of the agreement’s implications for ecuador must be left to the actual ratification process, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. – a protocol signed in 2014 allows ecuador to accede to the eu’s trade agreement with colombia and peru on ratification. a provision is in force to maintain the eu’s tariff preferences for ecuador that it previously enjoyed under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp), throughout 2016 or until such time as the protocol on accession shall be ratified. the motion for a resolution supports ecuador’s accession to the agreement. though the tariff reductions contained in the colombia-peru agreement would help sectors of the ecuadorian economy access eu markets, it also contains politicised sections. because a full assessment of the agreement’s implications for ecuador must be left to the actual ratification process, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. – i abstained on this resolution which is an accompanying resolution for a vote due to take place next year on the accession of ecuador to the columbia-peru free trade agreement. the resolution sets out parliament’s demands to be addressed prior to giving consent next year. positive aspects of the resolution include calling on the ecuadorian government to combat poverty, protect indigenous tribes, cooperate on specific environmental and deforestation programmes, recognise fair trade, and further principles of democracy and human rights. it also calls for a reflection and reassessment of the current columbia-peru agreement before adding ecuador as a partner. despite these positive aspects and attempts by myself to amend certain paragraphs, the text that was eventually adopted included wording that called for the ‘quick and complete entry into force and implementation of the agreement’, thereby negating the call for reflection on aspects of the agreement dealing with labour rights, sustainable development, the environment, etc. for this reason i could not support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this agreement has beneficial and harmful components. in its favour, i note potential tariff reduction. however, yet again it seeks to politicise trade. i therefore abstained on this motion.
in writing. ‒ a protocol signed in 2014 allows ecuador to accede to the eu’s trade agreement with colombia and peru on ratification. a provision is in force to maintain the eu’s tariff preferences for ecuador that it previously enjoyed under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp), throughout 2016 or until such time as the protocol on accession shall be ratified. the motion for a resolution supports ecuador’s accession to the agreement. though the tariff reductions contained in the colombia-peru agreement would help sectors of the ecuadorian economy access eu markets, it also contains politicised sections. because a full assessment of the agreement’s implications for ecuador must be left to the actual ratification process, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ a protocol signed in 2014 allows ecuador to accede to the eu’s trade agreement with colombia and peru on ratification. a provision is in force to maintain the eu’s tariff preferences for ecuador that it previously enjoyed under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp), throughout 2016 or until such time as the protocol on accession shall be ratified. the motion for a resolution supports ecuador’s accession to the agreement. though the tariff reductions contained in the colombia-peru agreement would help sectors of the ecuadorian economy access eu markets, it also contains politicised sections. because a full assessment of the agreement’s implications for ecuador must be left to the actual ratification process, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the principle of developing trade relations between the eu and the andean community, which is one of the fastest growing markets for eu businesses in latin america, is something i support. i also believe that the accession of ecuador to the free trade agreement with columbia and peru will be mutually beneficial for all states involved.
in writing. ‒ the ecr group and i have been very supportive of the accession of ecuador to this trade agreement and, in general, of the further development of trade relations between the eu and the andean community, which is one of the fastest growing markets for eu businesses in latin america.
in writing. – a protocol signed in 2014 allows ecuador to accede to the eu’s trade agreement with colombia and peru on ratification. a provision is in force to maintain the eu’s tariff preferences for ecuador that it previously enjoyed under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp), throughout 2016 or until such time as the protocol on accession shall be ratified. the motion for a resolution supports ecuador’s accession to the agreement. though the tariff reductions contained in the colombia-peru agreement would help sectors of the ecuadorian economy access eu markets, it also contains politicised sections. because a full assessment of the agreement’s implications for ecuador must be left to the actual ratification process, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the accession of ecuador to the eu-peru and colombia trade agreement given that the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru would be a step forward in the alliance with fast-growing countries in a region that is turning more and more to asia and the pacific. i ask that both the directorate-general for trade and the ecuadorian government provide convincing answers to the questions and concerns raised, before parliament votes on ecuador’s accession to the trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which will boost and diversify investment and trade between both the eu and peru and colombia. i also support the calls for an action plan on social and environmental rights in line with those already agreed.
in writing. – a protocol signed in 2014 allows ecuador to accede to the eu’s trade agreement with colombia and peru on ratification. a provision is in force to maintain the eu’s tariff preferences for ecuador that it previously enjoyed under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp), throughout 2016 or until such time as the protocol on accession shall be ratified. the motion for a resolution supports ecuador’s accession to the agreement. though the tariff reductions contained in the colombia-peru agreement would help sectors of the ecuadorian economy access eu markets, it also contains politicised sections. because a full assessment of the agreement’s implications for ecuador must be left to the actual ratification process, my fellow ukip mep colleagues and i voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as it encourages a quick and complete entry into force and implementation of this agreement, which will boost and diversify trade and investment on both sides and act as an important driver for economic and social development in ecuador.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which draws attention to the eu objective of including a binding trade and sustainable development chapter in all trade agreements concluded with both industrialised and non-industrialised partners. it supports, in this connection, the inclusion in the trade agreement between the eu and ecuador of a sustainable development chapter reflecting the partners’ common commitment to promoting respect for, compliance with, and full and proper enforcement of international human rights agreements, ilo conventions and key multilateral environmental agreements such as the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites).
in writing. ‒ a protocol signed in 2014 allows ecuador to accede to the eu’s trade agreement with colombia and peru on ratification. a provision is in force to maintain the eu’s tariff preferences for ecuador that it previously enjoyed under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp), throughout 2016 or until such time as the protocol on accession shall be ratified. the motion for a resolution supports ecuador’s accession to the agreement. though the tariff reductions contained in the colombia-peru agreement would help sectors of the ecuadorian economy access eu markets, it also contains politicised sections. because a full assessment of the agreement’s implications for ecuador must be left to the actual ratification process, ukip meps voted to abstain on the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote. the agreement has beneficial and harmful components. full assessment is best left to the ratification process.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement as it will boost and diversify investment and trade between both of the sides. we also called for an action plan on social and environmental rights in line with those already agreed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i support the accession of ecuador to this free trade agreement. this is a welcome expansion of the andean free trade zone to cover one of the fastest growing markets in south america.
madam president, this is the report that has taken up the most attention and has had the most amendments and the most debate out of all the things that we have been talking about today: animal welfare. of course, people feel strongly about it. it touches us emotionally, and it opens the door to what has come to be known as virtue signalling: people using a legislative or political issue as an opportunity to broadcast to the world what very nice people they are. but stand back and ask the question: is it right for sensitive issues – moral issues, one might say – of this nature to be dealt with at a continental level? is it not precisely matters of this kind, in which opinions run so strongly among our constituents, that ought to be determined through our national democratic mechanisms and procedures? putting an amendment or signing a resolution might give you a momentary warm glow, but is it really a way of strengthening democratic accountability in europe?
in writing. ‒ this resolution, ‘a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020’, seeks, under the guise of protecting animals, massively to extend eu regulatory control. even if some of the proposals are worthy, the unintended consequences would be horrendous and the legal and behavioural ramifications divisive and damaging.
in writing. – this resolution, ‘a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020’, seeks, under the guise of protecting animals, massively to extend eu regulatory control. even if some of the proposals are worthy, the unintended consequences would be horrendous and the legal and behavioural ramifications divisive and damaging.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this strategy which calls on the commission to draw up a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. it also asks the commission to implement outstanding points from the current strategy and for further evaluation of the 2012-2015 strategy. the joint resolution which was eventually adopted was a result of inter-party negotiations in the days leading up to the vote and was balanced in calling for ambitious new policy instruments where scientific evidence demonstrates welfare problems, while also recognising that the level of animal welfare in the european union is among the highest in the world. there were certain amendments which i could not support, including those which would have detracted payments from existing schemes for farmers who are already struggling to make ends meet. but also some amendments which i could support including those to combat the illegal wildlife trade and illegal bird hunting. overall, i chose to support this strategy which was good from the point of view of asking the commission to ensure an ambitious updated and comprehensive legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution, i support animal welfare of course, but the resolution seeks to grant the commission legislative competence on matters which should be the responsibility of member states. i note further that this is a non-legislative report and will not actually impact animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, ‘a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020’, seeks, under the guise of protecting animals, massively to extend eu regulatory control. even if some of the proposals are worthy, the unintended consequences would be horrendous and the legal and behavioural ramifications divisive and damaging.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, ‘a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020’, seeks, under the guise of protecting animals, massively to extend eu regulatory control. even if some of the proposals are worthy, the unintended consequences would be horrendous and the legal and behavioural ramifications divisive and damaging.
in writing. ‒ i voted for amendment 21 rev, not because i want the commission to be the relevant authority on animal welfare, trade or any rules relating to the uk, but because i think the killing of animals for the purpose of ʽtrophiesʼ is abhorrent.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today’s motion for a resolution calling on the commission to evaluate the existing animal welfare strategy and come forward with a new strategy for 2016-2020. we have the strongest animal welfare rules in the world in europe, but unless existing rules are properly enforced there is no point in bringing forward new legislation in this field. so the commission should evaluate how the current strategy has worked and where it has failed on enforcement, they should propose ways of strengthening enforcement mechanisms to ensure that legislation on animal rights is not effectively worthless.
in writing. – this resolution, ‘a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020’, seeks, under the guise of protecting animals, massively to extend eu regulatory control. even if some of the proposals are worthy, the unintended consequences would be horrendous and the legal and behavioural ramifications divisive and damaging.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion because it was too weak. the amendments proposed by my greens/efa group were rejected by parliament. it is disappointing that the commission has not brought forward a new strategy. i know that this is one of the issues on which my constituents in wales feel very strongly and i have had many messages about it. in 2014 i organised a petition calling for a commissioner responsible for animal welfare. i believe that if this had happened, we would have a strategy now.
in writing. ‒ animal welfare is a topic on which constituents from my region are continuously writing to me to demand action. while i acknowledge the important role played by the commission in improving animal welfare in europe over the past years, crucial steps remain to be taken. the recognition that animals are sentient beings should be the basis of any effective piece of legislation aiming to protect the wellbeing of animals. yet the majority of existing acts fail to recognise this key principle. while the adoption by the commission of the strategy on the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 has been a crucial step in improving animal welfare, it is disappointing that only nine out of the 19 actions contained in it have been implemented. i count on the commission to build on progress it has made with a strategy for 2016-2020 that investigates why this has been the case, and draws lessons from failure as well as success.
in writing. ‒ animal welfare is a crucial issue for the european union and i have worked hard to ensure high standards are upheld. the health of livestock is essential for the success of european farming and will help maintain a good base of food production here in the eu. in addition, mistreatment of animals must be prevented and care standards must be maintained, and indeed improved. i, therefore, support an update of the eu’s animal welfare strategy. however, this motion for a resolution that was presented does not offer an effective path going forward. it is more important to enforce the existing animal welfare strategy than to introduce a whole raft of new measures. in summary, i fully support the eu having an animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020, but i do not feel that the joint motion for a resolution calls for the right approach and i therefore chose to abstain from this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it urges the commission to draw up a new and ambitious eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals and stresses that improving the enforcement of, and compliance with, existing legislation should be the key goal of all animal health and welfare rules. labour meps have always been and will continue to be active in ensuring that animal rights and animal welfare are respected in the uk and across europe.
in writing. ‒ for the last three years i have had the privilege of serving as honorary vice-president of britain’s pre-eminent animal welfare organisation, the rspca. in that capacity, i am proud to support today’s vote for a new and ambitious eu animal welfare strategy. sadly, in my own east of england constituency, for the last year in which figures are available, some 232 people were convicted for animal neglect and cruelty. that is why i draw attention to paragraph 8 in particular, arguing the need for more effective implementation and enforcement of current eu legislation relating to the welfare of animals. in that context, and without seeking to politicise an organisation which remains absolutely true to its charitable status, i do want to place on record my deep concern at conservative attempts to prevent the rspca from undertaking its prosecutory role. animal cruelty is a crime. the rspca has an outstanding record for prosecuting those responsible for animal cruelty. it is the perpetrators of animal cruelty who have to be stopped, not those who prosecute them.
in writing. – this resolution, ‘a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020’, seeks, under the guise of protecting animals, massively to extend eu regulatory control. even if some of the proposals are worthy, the unintended consequences would be horrendous and the legal and behavioural ramifications divisive and damaging.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as it urges the commission to draw up a new and ambitious eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals and stresses that improving the enforcement of, and compliance with, existing legislation should be the key goal of all animal health and welfare rules. labour meps have always been and will continue to be active in ensuring that animal rights and animal welfare are respected in the uk and across europe.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution which emphasises that european citizens have a strong interest in animal welfare and wish to be able to make more informed choices as consumers.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, ‘a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020’, seeks, under the guise of protecting animals, massively to extend eu regulatory control. even if some of the proposals are worthy, the unintended consequences would be horrendous and the legal and behavioural ramifications divisive and damaging.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote. i think this could lead to a new massive regulatory framework. i think the rules we currently have are adequate and that they should be enforced properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i think it adequately addresses the animal welfare concerns and – particularly in recital e – makes specific provisions for member states not to be at a competitive disadvantage as a result of animal welfare policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. achieving the highest possible eu standards for the protection and welfare of animals and, in particular, ensuring that existing animal welfare legislation is fully implemented throughout the member states, is something that i, and many constituents in wales, feel very strongly about. i therefore welcome this resolution’s call for a new and ambitious strategy to be drawn up for the years 2016-2020, to ensure the continuation of a framework to deliver high animal welfare standards across the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. it is imperative that we uphold european values by protecting and safeguarding the welfare of animals. to achieve this the commission must draw up a new and ambitious plan. in its response where there is clear scientific evidence demonstrating animal welfare problems the commission must be flexible in its adaption of existing instruments to meet these issues. the promotion of innovation and research on the development of new animal welfare techniques and technologies is also vital to ensuring, so far as possible, good treatment of animals in these situations. there has been good progress on this recent years, but we need to go further in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the eu to provide access to education for children in emergency situations. this motion for a resolution is in light of certain situations such as the syrian civil war, which has completely demolished infrastructure in the region and has left children without education. the eu perceives this lack of education infrastructure to be a thriving ground for extremism; therefore the motion is calling for funding and an action plan for the situation. even though we agree that education is important for children in emergency situations we do not feel it is within the remit of the eu to do this.
in writing. – this motion for a resolution calls for the eu to provide access to education for children in emergency situations. this motion for a resolution is in light of certain situations such as the syrian civil war, which has completely demolished infrastructure in the region and has left children without education. the eu perceives this lack of education infrastructure to be a thriving ground for extremism; therefore the motion is calling for funding and an action plan for the situation. even though we agree that education is important for children in emergency situations we do not feel it is within the remit of the eu to do this.
in writing. – we voted in favour of the resolution as it calls for an increasing share of eu humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergencies and protracted crises, and on all host countries to help integrate child refugees into their national education system.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution, because i agree with the principle of the resolution but not that it should be implemented by the european union.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the eu to provide access to education for children in emergency situations. this motion for a resolution is in light of certain situations such as the syrian civil war, which has completely demolished infrastructure in the region and has left children without education. the eu perceives this lack of education infrastructure to be a thriving ground for extremism; therefore the motion is calling for funding and an action plan for the situation. even though we agree that education is important for children in emergency situations we do not feel it is within the remit of the eu to do this.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the eu to provide access to education for children in emergency situations. this motion for a resolution is in light of certain situations such as the syrian civil war, which has completely demolished infrastructure in the region and has left children without education. the eu perceives this lack of education infrastructure to be a thriving ground for extremism; therefore the motion is calling for funding and an action plan for the situation. even though we agree that education is important for children in emergency situations we do not feel it is within the remit of the eu to do this.
in writing. ‒ i support efforts that will help vulnerable children of refugees to continue their education despite the crisis. i support academic progress and employment that will enable them to prosper, make a contribution to the region, and eventually return to rebuild their torn countries. the uk government has already given thousands of refugees the chance to continue their schooling.
in writing. – this motion for a resolution calls for the eu to provide access to education for children in emergency situations. this motion for a resolution is in light of certain situations such as the syrian civil war, which has completely demolished infrastructure in the region and has left children without education. the eu perceives this lack of education infrastructure to be a thriving ground for extremism; therefore the motion is calling for funding and an action plan for the situation. even though we agree that education is important for children in emergency situations we do not feel it is within the remit of the eu to do this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as education is a human right that should be guaranteed for all children but it is often one of the most underfunded areas in humanitarian responses. time spent without access to education, particularly in younger years, can mean the creation of lost generations that could otherwise contribute to rebuilding their countries. the international community must prioritise education in its humanitarian responses by increasing humanitarian aid and improving delivery on the ground. development and humanitarian aid should also be bridged to ensure the effectiveness of these programmes in fragile states.
in writing. – this motion for a resolution calls for the eu to provide access to education for children in emergency situations. this motion for a resolution is in light of certain situations such as the syrian civil war, which has completely demolished infrastructure in the region and has left children without education. the eu perceives this lack of education infrastructure to be a thriving ground for extremism; therefore the motion is calling for funding and an action plan for the situation. even though we agree that education is important for children in emergency situations we do not feel it is within the remit of the eu to do this.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as education is one of the most underfunded areas in humanitarian responses. years without education mean lost generations that could contribute to rebuilding their countries and fostering inclusive and resilient societies. the international community must prioritise it, by increasing humanitarian aid and improving delivery on the ground. development and humanitarian aid must also be bridged to ensure the effectiveness of their programmes in fragile states. education is a human right that should be guaranteed for all children and especially in emergency situations.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which stresses that girls and other disadvantaged children, including disabled children, should never be discriminated against in terms of access to good education in emergency situations.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the eu to provide access to education for children in emergency situations. this motion for a resolution is in light of certain situations such as the syrian civil war, which has completely demolished infrastructure in the region and has left children without education. the eu perceives this lack of education infrastructure to be a thriving ground for extremism; therefore the motion is calling for funding and an action plan for the situation. even though we agree that education is important for children in emergency situations we do not feel it is within the remit of the eu to do this.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote. i agree with the sentiments of the report, however i think nation states should action this and not the eu.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported a motion that went through parliament calling on member states and the united nations to properly back education in areas of protracted crisis. education is a fundamental human right, but more than that, it is also one of the key determinants of a child’s future. out-of-school children and adolescents face a higher risk of early marriage, pregnancy, recruitment into armed groups, trafficking and labour exploitation. by ensuring universal and high-quality education we can promote stability and it can act as a catalyst for development. education bind societies back together, giving people the skills to help rebuild their own countries. all of this requires long-term investment and thinking. for all of these reasons i backed this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system that have many negative effects, i.e. the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure for allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is not cost-effective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. therefore an abstention was recommended.
in writing. – this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system that have many negative effects, i.e. the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure for allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is not cost-effective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. therefore an abstention was recommended.
in writing. – this resolution was proposed by the committee on regional development in recognition of the fact that complicated procedures, such as administration and onerous auditing procedures, can place a heavy burden on beneficiaries of cohesion policy funding. the resolution recommends a simplification of the rules, especially for those beneficiaries with less administrative and financial capacities, in order to better meet the needs of funding recipients. it also calls on the commission to enter into an ongoing dialogue with parliament, the committee of the regions and other stakeholders on all aspects of any simplification process. we therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system, which has many negative effects. the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure of allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is cost-ineffective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for a digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure, which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. this is utterly unobjectionable and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system that have many negative effects, i.e, the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure for allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is not cost-effective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. therefore an abstention was recommended.
in writing. ‒ this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system that have many negative effects, i.e. the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure for allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is not cost effective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. therefore an abstention was recommended.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this motion for a resolution calling for simplification and a move towards a more performance orientated approach in eu regional funding. any effort to cut red tape is welcome, particularly in this hugely burdensome area, although we obviously need to strike the right balance between simplification and ensuring effective and reliable financial controls. as this resolution makes clear, there is much more that can be done to simplify and improve the current system of managing regional spending. a ʽone-stop-shopʼ approach remains our ultimate goal, and in the meantime with more support for online applications and language simplification, we can help speed up application-to-grant times and reduce the administrative burden on local authorities and small businesses in managing regional spending. all of this will deliver a better pound-for-pound return to taxpayers on money invested in regional development.
in writing. – this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system that have many negative effects, i.e. the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure for allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is not cost-effective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. therefore an abstention was recommended.
in writing. ‒ along with my labour party colleagues, i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls on the commission to provide member states and their regions with a roadmap for streamlining and simplifying control, monitoring and reporting activities, including for beneficiaries, in order to do away with the current bottlenecks in funding.
in writing. ‒ as a local member of the european parliament, i have never visited any of the many wonderful eu projects in my east of england constituency without hearing questions and concerns about the bureaucratic complexity of claiming european union funding. today’s vote represents our next efforts to act on those concerns. further moves towards full online applications and monitoring, introducing standard scales of unit costs, ending the duplication of audits, combating the tendency of member states to ‘gold-plate european union regulations, avoiding frequent changes in rules and simplifying language and standardising procedures, these can all contribute to making it easier for smaller businesses and voluntary organisations to access the funding. i commend the work of the ‘europe connects’ advisers in the east of england, who helped to identify project proposals and assisted project applicants. sadly their once-free service has been hit by insufficient budgetary resources and now has to be paid for. if the proposals in this report go through, their work will be made easier and the european union money will be enabled to go further.
in writing. – this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system that have many negative effects, i.e. the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure for allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is not cost-effective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. my colleagues and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls on the commission to provide the member states and their regions with a roadmap for streamlining and simplifying control, monitoring and reporting activities, including for beneficiaries, in order to do away with the current bottlenecks.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which notes that despite the reformed cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, in which simplification methods are addressed, application, management, reporting and control with respect to the european structural and investment funds (esif) are still cumbersome for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, in particular those with fewer administrative and financial capacities.
in writing. ‒ this report is regarding a simplification of the procedure in cohesion policy. in simple terms parliament thinks that there are many faults in the current system that have many negative effects, i.e. the language is too complicated and also lost in translation, the procedure for allocation of cash is too slow and the process of transposition is too slow. this in turn has created a system that is not cost-effective. this motion for a resolution essentially asks for digitalisation of this process and calls for e-cohesion. even though we are against the commission distributing money and the processes involved with that, this resolution is essentially asking for a simplification of the current procedure which would make things more cost-effective in the long run. therefore an abstention was recommended.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion due to it wishing to change the way the commission handles its money. i do not wish to see the commission in charge of any uk money but, while saying that, i do not want to stand in the way of process simplifications that could lead to a more cost-effective system.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution on cutting red tape for local authorities and eu funding beneficiaries. i welcome all efforts to simplify the implementation of the european structural and investment funds, on the proviso that a sensible balance is struck between simplification and effective financial controls. i also support the creation of the new high level group of independent experts on monitoring simplification and the commission’s better regulation strategy, both positive steps towards the greater simplification mentioned in this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because it urges the commission and the member states to promote the simplification of the rules governing financial instruments within esi funds in order to align them more closely to the beneficiaries’ needs, aiming at their improved use. it is important at this time that we use cohesion funds in the most effective and sustainable way possible, without allowing parts of our union to be left behind. in the interests of use and transparency it is important that there is a standardisation of procedures across the eu to allow citizens a greater understanding. this policy area is too important to the wellbeing of european union citizens to be allowed to continue with its current bottlenecks.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, in this crisis we are lurching from one day to the next, grasping at straws, not really getting to grips with the fundamental issues. yes, it is good to have a summit with turkey to discuss cooperation, and we welcome that, but there is a big difference between cooperating with turkey and asking them to clear up our mess. we feel under a humanitarian and moral obligation to help refugees from syria who settle in neighbouring countries, and whatever we do will cost money, but we also need to be clear about the signal that we are going to send to those who want to come to the eu, whether they are coming as refugees or coming for economic reasons. so instead, the leader of a large member state sends a signal that the eu is open to everyone, whether or not they are refugees, and then, when other eu countries struggle and erect borders between each other, eu leaders ask turkey to play host instead on top of the millions that they already host. this is unlikely to offer a long-term solution to the crisis and it will do nothing to stem the flows from the balkan states. yes, turkey is a major important nato ally of ours, but as turkey’s ally, let us be more honest with them. let us not pretend that eu membership is on the horizon. there are far too many people in the eu who will never accept turkey for reasons including: pure prejudice against turks and their faith; concerns over human rights; concerns over freedom of movement; concerns over the number of votes that they would have in council and in parliament; and concerns over eu borders being extended to iraq, iran and syria. so let us be clear to the turks about what that relationship is, but let us also be clear to our voters what eu countries get in return for signing a visa-free agreement, and what we get in return for the eur 3 billion that turkey is demanding. and let us finally get to grips with some of the basics: a thorough registration process; a proper returns and readmissions agreement with countries in exchange for our aid; and effective external border controls. let us work together to build long-term solutions, not offer short-term promises that will never be fulfilled. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– yes.
blue-card question.– listening to your speech, i note that you are interested in closer cooperation but you still have great reservations about the turkish government. thank goodness – i am glad you do. i was wondering whether, in your mind, this closer cooperation will eventually lead to turkish membership of the eu and, if so, whether you feel the same as me that, whenever i have been to turkey, almost everyone i speak to says that they want to move to the eu, and that this would lead to a migration situation posing an even greater problem than we have ever faced before. do you agree that it would be a dangerous folly at the moment even to consider turkey’s membership of the eu any time in our lifetime?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i have seen quite a lot of policy failures in my long years here: the introduction of a currency that has impoverished the mediterranean; i have seen the idealised schengen area lead to the free movement of kalashnikovs; and every single week and month we see the attempt to create a single state of europe, which of course the european peoples do not want. but the eu’s common asylum policy is the lowest ebb for policy yet. chancellor merkel took the cork out of a champagne bottle and said anyone could come, and now you are trying to put the cork back in and realising it is not possible. so you have turned to somebody else to sort out your own problem. so let’s talk turkey. they have taken your weakness, and they have now decided they are going to blackmail you. not only do they want eur 3 billion from you this year, they are going to want eur 3 billion from you every single year. and in return they have given absolutely no guarantees whatsoever that they will stop people from coming, or indeed take people back. and they have managed to persuade you, whatever the commissioner says, into offering them, by october next year, visa-free access for 75 million people, whose average gdp income is half that of the poorest eu member state. i guess what you are doing is this: you are saying the way we will stop illegal immigration is to make it all legal immigration, and if that does not take the biscuit, now you are going to fast-track turkey to be an eu member state. so let us just think about that. a country, 97% of whose land mass is in asia, apparently you want to join europe. it is a country that appears to be keener on bombing the kurds than it is on taking on isis. it is a country that has turned a complete blind eye to isis fighters travelling through its territory. it is a country where, according to the pew institute in a poll last week, 8% of those 75 million actively encourage and support the aims of isis. it is a country directly and closely linked with buying isis oil, and we will finish up bordering syria, iraq and iran. it is mad. it is the most dangerous decision the european union has yet taken. i am sure the british prime minister will be delighted. he has campaigned for this since 2005. to me, without any of the other debates, if there was one single reason why britain should in this referendum vote to leave the european union, it is the folly of political integration with turkey. it is not only stupid: it is damned dangerous. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– believe you me, i was no supporter of tony blair’s endless series of wars, and if i was in a different parliament and not this one, i would vote against the bombing campaign that mr cameron wishes to join the americans and french in, because it has been poorly, badly thought through, with no long-term strategy whatsoever. look, if you want to deal with a problem that you have caused yourself in life rather than relying on somebody else to do it for you, perhaps it is better to recognise and realise you have made a mistake. and the only solution open to the european union is to follow the example of the australians who, from 2008 onwards, had a lot of boats heading towards their country – a lot of boats sinking, a lot of people drowning, many of the similar symptoms and problems – and the australians said: ‘if you wish to become a refugee or a migrant to australia, you will not succeed in doing so if you come via this route’. and the boats stopped coming. the eu needs to have the moral courage to stand up and say that, but frankly they have not got the guts.
madam president, every other single mep: if they miss their time, they miss their … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing.– the deal reached between eu member states and turkey in a bid to weaken the refugee inflow starkly contrasts in both speed and magnitude with the decision making on the management of the refugee crisis inside the eu. while member states are dragging their feet on honouring funding pledges to manage the refugee crisis, eur 3 billion has been promised to turkey in return for its help on sheltering refugees. i acknowledge the need for engaging with turkey to bring peace and stability to our neighbourhood, but we cannot undermine our enlargement policy by trading off commitments on accession negotiations and visa liberalisation against turkey’s willingness to carry a bigger burden on migration. especially not if this means remaining silent on the violation of human rights and freedom of speech in the country, and on the way in which the turkish government appears to be instrumentalising conflicts in the region to settle matters with the kurds. there is a thin line between engaging with a country in order to encourage it to do the right thing, and simply buying its cooperation while closing one’s eyes to injustice.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, it is important that the european union consider the great variety of all of our towns, cities and rural areas when discussing policy and legislation. this is an excellent and collaborative report that fully takes account of both the common and particular transport issues faced by people across the eu living in different urban communities. i am very pleased also that our report focuses constructively on innovation in the area of freight. as our rapporteur said, urban areas account for around a quarter of european carbon emissions from transport and so, commissioner, we urgently need genuinely sustainable mobility for goods and for our economies. i would like your comments on that point. on road safety, it is especially welcome that the report calls strongly for advanced traffic and speed management measures, including enforcement. as elected representatives, we must recognise and act on the fact that a large majority of europeans think that road safety in cities is a serious problem. many, many cyclists and pedestrians are killed or seriously injured in our cities in europe every year. what, commissioner, are you going to do about that? towns and cities are also often unequal places with extreme divisions between rich and poor. as acknowledged by this report, good public transport has important social and economic benefits, as well as environmental ones, helping people gain access to jobs and get out of poverty. socialists and democrats are delighted that many of our long-term priorities that i have just highlighted are in this text, and i urge all meps to vote for the amendment. there is only one amendment to this report. we all agree that fossil fuel subsidies should be phased out, so please vote for that amendment.
mr president, sorry, but that was a political speech. that was not a point of order. surely it is up to our whips’ meetings to decide. that was a political point. that was not a point of order.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i only have one minute tonight in which to speak, so just two quick messages really. the first is about action. we started the year in riga saying we wanted action, not just warm words. well we did act, we got agreement in addis ababa, and then in paris, and we hope to get agreement at the cop 21 in paris next week. we have also agreed a new agenda action plan, but now we have to turn those commitments into real policies on the ground, and that is the second word really – legacy – which both the commission and the council spoke about. we have to deliver on the promises. we have spoken, commissioner mimica, about renewing the european consensus on development and maybe it is time now to bring that idea forward to create a new buy-in, by all the partners, into the next 15 years of development policy. finally, i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency for its commitment, the latvian presidency for its commitment, and you, commissioner mimica, for yours, as well as my colleagues, who throughout the year have been extremely supportive in getting the message out.
mr president, the eu is the biggest aid donor in the world, but how much actually goes towards development? how much money has gone instead towards military spending and wars? whilst the european year for development sought to address the eradication of poverty and hunger, eu countries are indeed contributing to poverty and hunger by fighting wars, either directly or by proxy, across the middle east and africa. westminster is voting tonight on whether to drop more bombs in syria. that is neither the answer nor the solution. that will cause more deaths, more refugees and more suffering. pope francis said last week that such a war will leave ruins, thousands of children without education, so many innocent victims and lots of money in the pockets of arms dealers. we need development goals which end extreme wealth and which recognise that poverty is not a naturally occurring germ, and that poverty has a cause.
mr president, this year, 2015, has been the european year of development. i am sure that those people watching this on youtube, and the three people in the gallery, are well aware of that. well, actually, let’s get realistic. as i predicted last year, this patting ourselves on the back, and a blatant propaganda campaign, has gone completely ignored by the public at home. the eur 17 million wasted on this could have, and should have, been used to save lives, and not on advertising how compassionate and how wonderful we are, with taxpayers’ money. there will be no legacy of the european year of development.
mr president, in the uk development aid is a very controversial issue: it is ring-fenced. so while there are sweeping cuts to defence, education, law and order, and health, foreign aid is ring-fenced. and then the british people, i am sure, will be, as one of our former monarchs would say, ‘not amused’ to find out that not only is our taxpayers’ money from the uk government being sent out to a rather peculiar bunch of dictators across the world, but then we have taxpayers’ money that has gone to the eu which is then being further sent out, and to compound this insult, we find that we are actually having yet more of our taxpayers’ money spent on telling us what a good thing it is. this is the ultimate bad deal for britain. it is absolutely appalling.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, my contribution to today’s debate will utilise my experience as a former non-executive director of a uk stock exchange-listed company, a venture capital trust, as a board chair, and finally as a charity board trustee. the dimension that this eu policy does not address is that endemic through the business community is the aspect of ‘not what you know, but who you know’. even the international recruitment sector responsible for people search acknowledges this depressing situation. thus, whilst we all want to see more women take board or other influential roles in companies, the reality conspires against that outcome. the issues at stake are not about merit, experience and qualifications: they are about transparency of the recruitment process and the contribution that quality recruitment will and could make. gender is completely immaterial, and by introducing quotas the fight against discrimination then becomes skewed by discrimination. forcing companies to adopt 40% gender quotas and penalising them if they do not is hardly responsible or even realistic legislation. if the eu truly wants to redress the situation, then go back to the drawing board, please, and tackle the misogynist establishment which utilises the old boy network across europe. i cannot support this.
mr president, i would like to thank the luxembourg presidency for all the good work they have done on this. they have very much put it back on the agenda, which it should never have left. as has been said by many speakers, companies with more women on their boards tend to perform better than those with fewer. i believe that this, in itself, makes the case, but we are nowhere near parity, as we know. as a result of that, we are of course missing out on a whole pool of talent. although the number of women on boards has been going up since the commission draft was published, it is still, quite simply, not enough. it has even gone up in the uk, where about 25% of non-executive directors are now women. as we all know, the conservative government in the uk is part of the blocking minority. i have specifically mentioned non-executive directors because that is what this report is about. we need to move on and to make sure that there are more women executive directors ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i think we all agree that women are woefully under—represented both at management level and at board level across the eu, albeit with differences between member states and with things improving, which we should acknowledge. however, while i have always believed that the best man for the job is usually a woman, i do not like quotas. i never have. i find them just a little bit demeaning. i do believe in merit. i also believe in subsidiarity and my – and indeed my government’s – objection to this has largely been on the grounds of subsidiarity, and that this is a decision that should be made by member states. so i was not expecting to see much in the council position to interest me. so what a surprise to read article 4 on flexibility. thank you, luxembourg – at last someone is listening! maybe, just maybe we have the beginnings of an agreement here. i wish you the best of luck.
mr president, i would like to extend my thanks as well to the luxembourg presidency for its efforts. it is astonishing to reflect that here we are in 2015 still having to fight so hard for gender equality. alongside many of my colleagues here today, i do implore the house to think about how we can make progress on this directive and realise that we do need to take action right now. we were deeply frustrated by the decision to refit the maternity directive earlier this year, and we need to have some change made on the issue of gender. this directive is not just about directors, it is about changing the shape of culture within companies. with more women in elevated positions we can exert influence not just in those positions but at all levels throughout the company. empowering women at the top works towards a more equal future for all.
mr president, a 40% share of women as a binding rule across the eu in boardrooms was mentioned by the commissioner. any intervention on this scale is a blatant intervention into the free market by the state. without free markets and free market enterprise you don’t have free people. what we need to be looking at is equality of opportunity, not equality of outcome. that is the most important thing. it is very important that politicians and well-meaning state authorities do not start with this kind of thing, closing down freedoms in order to have laudable goals. freedom of opportunity is the main and only thing that matters in a real truly free society.
author.– mr president, on behalf of the libe committee, allow me to present the oral question to the commission which we have tabled concerning the situation in hungary. on 10 june parliament adopted a resolution in plenary on this situation, where it asked the commission to assess the situation and to establish an eu mechanism to monitor democracy, the rule of law and human rights annually across the eu. the aim of the resolution is not to single out a single member state or government but to call on eu institutions, particularly the commission as the guardian of the eu treaties, to fulfil an obligation to ensure the application of and compliance with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, across the union. the eu, as we all know, was founded on values of respect, freedom, democracy, equality and rule of law as well as human rights. with this in mind it is important that member states and all eu institutions work together to protect these basic european principles. in paragraph 11 of the resolution the european parliament urged the commission to ‘activate the first stage of the eu framework to strengthen the rule of law, and therefore to initiate immediately an in-depth monitoring process concerning the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, assessing a potential systemic serious breach of the values on which the union is founded as per article 2 teu including the combined impact of a number of measures exacerbating the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, and evaluating the emergence of a systemic threat to the rule of law in that member state that could develop into a clear risk of a serious breach within the meaning of article 7 teu’, and asked the commission to ‘report back on this matter to parliament and the council before september 2015’. so i put the following questions to the commission: has the commission carried out this in-depth monitoring process as requested by parliament? if not, can the commission explained the reasons for not having initiated such in-depth monitoring? secondly can the commission provide the european parliament with its assessment of the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary today? third, has the commission activated the rule of law framework as called for by the european parliament, and if not, can the commission provide a reasoned argument for not having done so? i am very much looking forward to the responses of the commission and the debate of members on these key questions.
mr president, here you go again. all for the rule of law, as long as it is your law. all for freedom, as long as it is the freedom to live within eu constraints. i saw disgraceful disrespect to the leader of a sovereign independent government when mr orbán came to strasbourg. he was treated in an appalling manner and why? because he dared to consult with his people about immigration, about law and order? now he has upset you again by building a fence to keep out immigrants. well, you might not like it, but this is the elected government of a sovereign state. they should have the right to make their own laws. any attempt to change the situation in hungary would be a sinister eu regime change. the people of hungary should follow the example of the people of the uk, regain their independence and freedom, and leave the eu.
mr president, as members of this parliament know, the british conservative government has called a referendum on our continued membership of the european union. in a recent article in the financial times stuart rose, the former head of marks and spencer, called on british business not to stay silent in the eu referendum debate. alas, this seems to be exactly what many are doing. so i would like to take this opportunity to say to the business community: don’t wait for permission from david cameron before you discuss and make your views clear. speak out now on our membership of the european union. but not just the business sector. we also need to call on the voluntary sector to speak out. don’t become the silent sector, instead discuss and speak out. and to the churches: don’t hide behind the offer to facilitate the debate on our eu membership. take a view, speak out, defend the peace created between european nations that once fought each other. in the context of our membership of the european union, silence is not golden. silence in a democracy is an abdication of responsibility. don’t abdicate; engage, speak out.
mr president, there are many reasons why public transport is important. one of them is that 64% of job seekers do not have access to a car or cannot drive. so there, in a nutshell, is your link between public transport and the economy. and yet public expenditure on the economy in the west midlands is gbp 256 per head, whereas in london it is gbp 2 604 per head. now i do not think that is very fair, and i do not think my constituents think it is very fair either. we do get some support from the european union for this public expenditure in the west midlands, but very little, partly because the conservative government of the uk is ideologically opposed to match-funding that funding. so now that we are going to have regional government at last in the united kingdom, i appeal to the european union: fund us directly, don’t let the uk government take our money.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multi-national companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that the european parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. – i voted in favour of setting up the taxe ii committee. according to the new mandate taxe ii should either produce a resolution or another report. i have called for a report to be produced as a report is more effective and carries more authority as opposed to a resolution. as it stands, it has been agreed that a report will be issued but only if the taxe ii makes new discoveries. i have a number of reservations as to whether the committee will discover anything of substance, as the lack of political will to date has been very disappointing. however, i will continue to monitor this situation closely.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multi-national companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that the european parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multinational companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this special committee as it is important the ep continues its work on taxation files and keeps up the pressure on the council to make sure loopholes in european taxation legislation are closed.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multinational companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. – whilst my ukip colleagues and i recognise that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multinational companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons my fellow ukip meps and i voted against.
in writing. – whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multinational companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multinational companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mandate for the new taxe ii committee because there should be nowhere to hide for those governments and companies who have been complicit in tax dodging. over the last nine months, the special committee on tax has uncovered scandalous details about the nature and extent of tax fiddling in europe. but that committee has not had access to everything it needed to make a full assessment. the task is not over. that is why it was so important today to establish the taxe ii committee: so that it can continue to investigate tax dodging across the eu, make sure meps have access to the right documents and have hearings with key individuals, and monitor the commission’s and member states’ progress in putting measures into place to stop tax fiddling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mandate for the new taxe ii committee because there should be nowhere to hide for those governments and companies who have been complicit in tax dodging. over the last nine months, the special committee on tax has uncovered scandalous details about the nature and extent of tax fiddling in europe. however, that committee has not had access to everything it needed to make a full assessment. the task is not over. that is why it was so important today to establish the taxe ii committee: so that it can continue to investigate tax dodging across the eu, make sure meps have access to the right documents and have hearings with key individuals, and monitor the commission’s and member states’ progress in putting measures into place to stop tax fiddling.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the appointments to the special committee on tax rulings (taxe ii). however, while of course the composition of the committee is very important, we should not lose sight of the fact that this committee should not just be another elaborate pr stunt. according to the new mandate taxe ii should either produce a resolution or another report. i have called for a report to be produced as a report is more effective and carries more authority as opposed to a resolution. as it stands, it has been agreed that a report will be issued but only if the taxe ii committee makes new discoveries. i have a number of reservations as to whether the committee will discover anything of substance as the lack of political will to date has been very disappointing. however, i will continue to monitor this situation closely.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multinational companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ whilst ukip recognises that there is a need for bodies like the oecd and g20 to revise the tax treatment of multinational companies, we have seen from the plenary resolution of 25 november 2015 that parliament and the taxe committee are more interested in harmonising taxes, eliminating tax competition and extending the powers of the eu into tax matters which are properly the exclusive competence of sovereign nations. these are not matters for the eu, and the taxe committee has shown itself to be powerless to require attendance of witnesses or disclosure of documents – without which its investigations can only ever be inconclusive. for these reasons ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states.
in writing. – i voted against this report. the intention of the report is positive in the sense that it is seeking to ensure that interests on savings income is paid, however, there has been no real effort to deal with this very important matter authentically or with any real will. the shadow to the report was unable to make any improvements to the text as parliament was only heard after the ratification of the agreement. moreover and very importantly, the agreement falls short of the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation report, which was approved in october in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ).
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states
in writing. ‒ i welcome this amending protocol, which brings the eu and liechtenstein’s automatic exchange of financial account information into line with oecd global standards. enhancing data protection is vitally important in maintaining public confidence in authorities’ use of their information. this agreement, as well as the similar agreement with switzerland and upcoming agreements with san marino, andorra and monaco, will help in ensuring we have the highest standards of data protection around financial information exchange, as well as in meeting our international obligations under the oecd.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states
in writing. – my fellow colleagues and i opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states.
in writing. – ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states.
in writing. ‒ ukip opposes the eu acting in its own capacity to enter into international agreements that could be agreed on a bilateral or multilateral basis between nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement: it is in line with the call and need for more transparency regarding tax issues in the member states of the european union and improves this dimension with our relations with third countries – those states not members of the eu.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. – whilst gue/ngl amendments were adopted at committee level the proposals presented did go far enough to ensure an adequate standard of accountability for frontex operations. the proposed complaints mechanism does not go far enough. i abstained on this report as currently there is no complaint procedure and the report in no way extends or enhances the remit or powers of frontex.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. ‒ a number of the recommendations in this report do not take account of the special nature of frontex agency and its relationship with member states. i am also extremely concerned that making the details available of a number of the complaints of potential breaches of human rights by frontex during the course of its work could prove counter-productive in minimising the amount of false complaints, and in deterring individuals with genuine cases. i also feel that the calls for additional resources are not realistic or responsible in light of the budgetary constraints in this area. for these reasons i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given that the eu has a moral and legal imperative to ensure that its border agency carries out its tasks in full respect of human rights. that is why it is important that a complaints mechanism is set up to provide individuals with an opportunity to exercise their right to an effective remedy in case of violation of their fundamental rights in the context of actions carried out by frontex.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. – i and my fellow ukip colleagues voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. – ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against the setting up of a complaints mechanism as we feel such a mechanism would be ineffective, open to malicious false claims and potentially demotivate border staff. furthermore, we feel that a far better way to protect borders is to have sovereign states decide their own immigration policies, rather than to set up complaint mechanisms in an already broken and unworkable system.
in writing. ‒ at committee level, my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group supported the report from its beginning. they managed to include some vital amendments which i am pleased to see. in my view all people should have the ability to seek redress for breaches of their fundamental rights, and in this time of turmoil for people escaping war and economic stagnation in other countries, who are making the dangerous trip across, into europe, it is more important than ever that migrants have easier access to legal redress when it comes to alleged breaches of their fundamental rights. something which the eu has long championed.
in writing. ‒ with the current humanitarian crisis surrounding the movement of refugees into the european union, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) is more vital than ever in order to ensure that eu borders are monitored and protected in line with the eu fundamental rights charter. i support the european ombudsman’s recommendation that frontex should provide individuals with a transparent and accessible individual complaints procedure so that they can exercise their right to an effective remedy if their rights have been violated. this report establishes a framework for this complaints procedure and i was therefore happy to vote in favour.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report from parliament’s committee on transport and tourism. it is a positive and progressive report that proposes further development of sustainable transport, particularly public transport, to aid urban mobility in the eu. it discusses the need for, and ways to reduce conventional car use, carbon emissions and air pollution in european cities by promoting public transport. it does so without imposing solutions on member states. there were a small number of paragraphs that i voted against, including promotion of the ‘sharing economy’ (e.g. uber) without any recognition of the problems that abound in this sector. i also voted against endorsing the ‘polluter pays’ principle in individual car use (sinn féin supports this principle for major polluters but not in the form of consumer taxes, for example the irish carbon tax), and against endorsing road toll booth charges. despite these small disagreements with elements of the text, the report was overwhelmingly positive and will result in mobility-related and environmental benefits for citizens in ireland and the eu, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. ‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. ‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. ‒ whilst i applaud many of the aims of this report, it deals with a lot of issues that are best dealt with at local level, rather than a european one, and i cannot support it. the report goes far beyond the sharing of best practice in european cities, which i agree with, and instead makes a detailed and prescriptive list of recommendations. some of these are merely impractical, whilst others, such as the banning of cars in all european cities by 2050, are completely unrealistic and restrictive on citizens’ everyday lives. i also fundamentally disagree with this report prescribing how member states should use the revenue gained from road tolls. that is a national competence and should remain so.
in writing. ‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. – whilst well intentioned, this report presents a number of serious subsidiarity-based concerns for the uk delegation. in particular, the report deals with issues that are best dealt with at local level, and goes beyond the sharing of best practice in european cities in favour of a detailed and prescriptive list of recommendations, some of which are impractical, whilst others, such as the banning of cars in all european cities by 2050, are simply utopian. in particular, the report seeks to prescribe how member states should use the revenue gained from road tolls and strays into issues such as the pricing of parking and asking local authorities to include environmental performance requirements as part of all their public procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility which covers the transport issues faced by people across the eu living in different urban communities. good public transport has important social and economic benefits, as well as environmental ones, helping people gain access to jobs and get out of poverty.
in writing. ‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. ‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. – the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. – the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. ‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years. for example london introduced the ‘boris bike’ in 2010 and manchester has continuously expanded its metro system and is delivering completion ahead of schedule and within budget. this report is the eu adopting an approach of ‘teaching your grandmother to suck eggs’. the call for the ban of all cars by 2050 is ludicrous and would lead to chaos. it is not for the eu to tell the subjects of the uk when and where they can use their cars.
in writing. ‒ sustainable urban mobility is a priority for both me and the socialists in this chamber. it is key to boosting the social and economic conditions of those living in cities and prevents the growing inequalities that we are seeing more and more in recent years. importantly, and this vote comes at an appropriate time, the ‘sustainability’ dimension to mobility in urban areas will contribute to our fight against climate change.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i would like to thank mr arias cañete, whose resemblance to father christmas has not gone amiss here today. mr arias cañete, you are bringing to us gifts from paris and i think that should be in the forefront of all our minds. what we have seen in paris is perhaps more important because of the ambition it represents: 1.5°c as an ambition is significant. what does it mean for us now? we must do some of the underpinning research and understand the implications for all our policies; not just those on the union, but across every single one of our targets. we need to look at what that ambition can represent and should represent. i should pay tribute to my colleague, mr gróbarczyk, who has gone back to poland to work on fisheries, the poor bugger. it will be more difficult working on fisheries than energy, i suspect. the reality, however, is that the energy union must be the beating heart of the european continent. if it is, we can make significant progress. right now, by combining each of our states’ ambitions we can interlink and we can make that difference happen. interconnectivity is important and we must make sure that it actually works. i believe the north sea is a place where we can see that ambition in reality and i will push again, mr arias cañete, for you to realise that the north sea is good to go and ready to go. let us interlink that basin and let us see that progress in reality. let it be a beacon for the rest of the eu so that we can make some substantial progress. i think that should be our next, and perhaps most important step. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr duncan, i agree with you on the north sea, so do you agree with me on the key role which binding targets play in ensuring certainty for investors in renewables, energy efficiency and cleantech? a binding energy efficiency target would create jobs, reduce energy poverty and create benefits for our economy – all with one swift act. without them, are we sending the right signals to investors?
blue-card answer.– miss kirton- darling, i do not believe that binding anything is actually going to be the driver. it is actually realising these things that will make the significant difference. i believe right now that those commitments are sound and solid, just as they have been in paris. what we witnessed was a binding agreement in part and a voluntary agreement in other parts, but that does not lessen the ambition. it should not lessen the output either.
mr president, the commission plans to revise the emissions trading scheme and its allowance system. the eu claims this will distribute available allowances more efficiently. we in ukip are against the proposal as we reject the damaging eu ets system and this revision of it. we believe that the commission should recognise that the entire eu project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. it has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment to outside-eu areas – especially in my constituency of scotland, where it has destroyed our steel industry. this house has spent too much of its time trying to fix this failing mechanism and its devastating effects on energy prices, the industry of europe and industrial competitiveness in general. it is time to put our people first: out of the eu, out of this nonsense! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well sir, we know you are a green and in my country we have had our country polluted with useless german windmills and propellers all over our landscape. they do not provide energy at affordable prices and they ruin the landscape. we want things that work, not things that do not work. we want to see industry and jobs in our country. you may want to go back to the dark ages, sir, but not every one of us wants to live in a cave.
mr president, we need to promote an energy union with clean, secure and affordable energy. we need to promote an energy union in which citizens and local authorities play a central part and we realise the potential of the north sea. we need an energy union in which the most vulnerable citizens are not left aside. energy efficiency is the first fuel. it is about security. it is about savings. it is about energy poverty and health. resistance to high, ambitious and binding targets on energy efficiency is inconsistent and irresponsible. i am hopeful that parliament will give a progressive vision of the energy union tomorrow. we owe this to ourselves and to our future generations.
mr president, achieving agreement in respect of an energy union that acknowledges the importance of tackling the unsustainable use of fossil fuels and increased use of clean, green renewables instead is ever more important. i have just spent three days back in my north-west england constituency witnessing first-hand the devastating and costly effects of storm desmond, an unprecedented extra—tropical cyclone which has made thousands homeless, rendered property uninsurable and already resulted in job losses, with 1 000 people immediately laid off at the famous mcvitie’s biscuit factory in carlisle just before christmas. the real cost of failure in agreeing a progressive, sustainable energy union will be more of the same. we must act now, for the benefit of everybody’s future.
in writing.– this report, rightly, acknowledges that it is for member states to determine their energy mix and that it is a sovereign decision of each member state on how to decarbonise its economy. there is, however, a role for eu level coordination of policies and technological development, in order to deliver on europe’s and member states’ climate and energy targets. ensuring a much higher level of interconnectivity between national power systems is essential for ensuring a more flexible, decentralised and sustainable energy sector, and facilitating an increase of renewable energy. my country, scotland, is well placed to harness its abundance of resources in the form of wave, wind and tidal generating potential. a sensibly prioritised eu energy union will give due priority to supporting the provision of interconnectors, so that scotland’s potential surplus electricity can be sold to the mainland european market, where guaranteeing long-term security of supply is necessary. while i support the idea of an energy union in principle, there are some aspects of the report that we will vote on tomorrow that i cannot support. for instance there is, in my view, unacceptably strongly worded support for nuclear generation, and eu financing thereof. i cannot support that.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, our loss, our grief and our anger at the atrocities we have witnessed at the hands of terrorists in this past year have struck deep into the consciousness of who we are as nations, as communities and as a union. at times, our fear and our grief force us to question afresh who we trust, what we know and what we believe. but we must never allow the hateful rhetoric of the few to make victims of us all, as we are a europe of democracy, diversity and liberty. in the days that followed paris, the feelings that echoed throughout france and europe were of sadness and shock. but then came the more powerful message of resilience and of hope. the bigotry and barbarity of isil must never make victims of tolerance and cohesion. we must do all we can to help those that survive these atrocities rebuild their lives and feel safe again. we must supply the security needed to our citizens to allow them to live lives of freedom. we will defeat the enemy and with that our lives will become free from fear, but not at the price of the tolerance of religions and cultures which have contributed to the europe of today.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, in the wake of the devastating terrorist atrocities inflicted on the world in recent months and years, i convey my utmost sympathy to all of the victims and to their families. da’esh is a frankenstein monster, and member states must stop bankrolling it. stopping da’esh means stopping european banks from accepting revenue from the usd 2 million per day da’esh gains from its control of oil fields. member states must act with humanity. they must address the needs of the millions of victims who have become refugees as a result of the terror that they are enduring. violent extremism has grown in places ravaged by western militaries, making the world considerably more dangerous. efforts to de-escalate the situation in syria and pursue a model of conflict resolution are what we need. dropping more bombs in syria is not the solution. the recent conflict in ireland saw the british state apparatus kill with impunity. the council of europe human rights commissioner, nils muižnieks, says that there has been virtual impunity for british state actors. unfortunately, in these debates state-sponsored terrorism is often neglected. reports from iraq and libya – and now syria – demand that this parliament end the double standards and condemn all acts of terrorism. as a member state and signatory of the european convention of human rights, the british government has failed to deal with its article 2 obligation: the right to life.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the first duty of any government is the protection of its own citizens, and it is often said that terrorists can never win; but this is not true. terrorists can win when a sizable number of the general population sympathise with their long-term objectives. for example, in the united kingdom, the ira terrorised and murdered its way into government in northern ireland. few would be publicly prepared to admit to supporting the terrorism of the ira, but plenty are willing to vote for sinn féin, its political wing. the current terrorist threat comes from islamic fundamentalists who want to establish a world caliphate under sharia law. we are told that the vast majority of muslims are peace-loving and non-violent, and i accept that is true. but the majority are not the problem, the minority are; and they all follow the same religion. the teachings of that religion, if taken literally, are totally incompatible with democracy and western civilisation. we face a massive problem in combating fundamentalist ideology in our societies. last month i said here that the first step in doing that was to stop, once and for all, all further mass immigration from islamic countries. the eu’s policy to allow millions more migrants from islamic countries is nothing short of playing russian roulette with the lives of our citizens.
mr president, the point of order is under rule 11(2), which is on members’ conduct being characterised by mutual respect. as a sinn féin member and someone who topped the poll in the north of ireland with almost 160 000 people voting for me, i find it absolutely disgraceful that someone in this chamber would try to make the connection that the previous speaker did. the voters of sinn féin vote for us based on our mandate, based on what we put forward to tell the people how we will represent them, and based on the manifesto that we present to them. that is why the thousands – almost half a million people – on the island of ireland vote for sinn féin, so i think that based on rule 11(2) the member should conduct himself in a manner characterised by mutual respect. that was not what we heard from the member here this evening.
mr president, my sympathies go out to all those who have suffered at the hands of terrorists across europe and beyond, especially in my own constituency in northern ireland for over 40 years. historically, terrorists have not worked in isolation, but have shared expertise, knowhow and equipment between their groups. it is therefore only right that we share best practice in protecting and supporting the needs of innocent victims and survivors of terrorism. innocent victims and survivors of terrorism need support long after the media spotlight has shifted elsewhere. in my constituency, many individuals, families and communities continue to bear the physical and emotional scars associated with decades of terrorism. the needs of innocent victims and survivors are complex and evolve over time. innocent victims and survivors have the right to truth and justice. they also have the right not to be retraumatised by terrorists seeking to glory in their acts of terror. in closing, we must clarify and clearly differentiate between innocent victims and perpetrators. those who have sought to maim and murder are not victims. i support the victims, not the victim-makers.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, that was not a paean to democracy: that was a paean to populism. that was saying, commissioner, that if you get a majority in this place, regardless of any of the regulations in place and regardless of any of the opportunities that you may have had to change that regulation – for example when you had the opportunity to reject gm feed on subsidiarity grounds, you did not take it, this house rejected it – you now want it to come back in through the back door. we do not have that availability. that is not democracy. members of this parliament are misusing the procedures to follow their own pet agendas. yes, we know they do not like gm – so don’t eat it, don’t grow it, don’t buy it. but they do not have the right to prevent farmers from buying gm feed. it is not against the rules of the european union. it is not against our current procedures. i think we should reject this rejection outright and see it for what it is: populism, anti-corporatism and downright wrong. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– insofar as i could detect a question there, my response would be: no, we are not talking about any of that. we are talking about – in front of us – a rejection of a decision that has been made entirely properly and correctly. you have to have some justification to do that, beyond your maniacal belief that gm is killing people. you have to have better justification than that; and none is presented. none.
madam president, it is right that we focus on small business, which in my country is creating three times more jobs than big listed companies. but i want to back tonight paragraph 30 of the report, which regrets the lack of funding to social enterprises and calls for more help for social entrepreneurs. according to social enterprise east of england, over half of our social enterprises are less than five years old, and nearly one in seven export – precisely the businesses that this european facility should support. i am proud to have supported a commitment of gbp 96 million to voluntary and social sector enterprises in the structural investment funds in the last five years, in addition to 113 community grants in my constituency in the last year alone, but this should be business funding, too. i want us to find the new social entrepreneurs in the tradition of john bird, founder of the big issue newspaper for homeless people who lives in cambridgeshire, or andy bradley, the essex social entrepreneur who is helping health providers rediscover compassion. our vote tomorrow will help find them.
madam president, on 5 december, storm desmond, an extra—tropical cyclone, hit the coast of cumbria in the north-west of england, where my office is based. over the next two days torrential rainfall in excess of 300 millimetres, the highest levels in recorded history, fell across the county and beyond, causing river levels to rise, drains to overflow, bridges to collapse. thousands of homes and businesses were flooded, many for the third time in ten years. whilst world leaders argued over a climate deal in paris, thousands of people in my constituency were bearing the brunt of global warming. many are now homeless climate refugees, just before christmas. infrastructure is damaged and local businesses are suffering. my constituents have demonstrated enormous resilience and community spirit but we are still missing significant financial support. we need david cameron and the uk government to act now to provide both immediate help, through accessing the eu solidarity funds, and by investing in long-term environmental solutions.
madam president, europe and the uk watched in horror as storm desmond hit parts of the northwest region which i represent. across cumbria thousands of homes and businesses have been devastated just weeks before christmas. emergency services across the region are working tirelessly to assist communities who have been affected by the storm, and i pay tribute to their work. they cannot do this work alone; they need support. i welcome the government’s announcement that it will give gbp 50 million for flood victims, but the truth is the government previously cut gbp 115 million from the flood defences. therefore, i urge the uk government to make all the necessary efforts to help the emergency services and victims of the flood. i call on the british prime minister to apply for eu solidarity funds without any delay. my fellow labour meps and i have written to the government urging them to do so. the people of cumbria must get the help they deserve to rebuild their lives after the storm.
madam president, by the end of 2017 britain will vote to decide whether we remain inside the largest regional economic bloc in the world or are cast adrift to an uncertain future outside the eu. i believe that we should remain at the top table, rather than shouting from the sidelines. why? for five reasons: north-east investment, jobs, our rights, our health and uk security. uk citizens, your rights at work are at stake in this debate: your right to paid holidays, your right to equal pay and your right not to be killed or injured at work. all these are eu-based rights delivered by your meps. this tory government is devastating workers’ rights at home. do not give them an easier ride. we need a stronger set of rights across europe, and labour meps are leading that fight for you. vote to remain in and join our fight for better rights across europe.
blue-card question.– it is good that you are here. this is an interesting debate, and i have a question, although it is a shame that so many of our colleagues are more interested in the single market – that is, the strasbourg christmas single market – than being here. would a more honest approach for 2016 – a new year’s resolution for europe – be to say there is only one choice: to become a united states of europe with european monetary union, closer, coming together, all of the things we have heard today, or independence, sovereignty and the nation state? there is no middle ground, is there?
mr president, a former british chancellor of the exchequer, denis healey, who sadly passed away this year, had a famous law of holes. it was quite simple: when you are in one, stop digging. even the current british chancellor, george osborne, knows of healey’s law of holes, which is perhaps why he recently abandoned his plan to slash tax credits for working people. but clearly the law of holes is yet to reach continental europe, because the eurozone is in the mother of all holes and yet rather than climb out you lot keep digging. the euro does not work. even after quantitative easing, eurozone growth this year is a dismal 1.5% – this seven years after the financial crash upon which you still blame all your woes. in italy, growth is 0.8%; in poor greece, 0.5%. after so many productive resources were taken out of use following the crash, your annual growth number should be starting with a three and not a zero anywhere in the euro area. my efdd group colleagues in the five star movement put it very well when they say sufficient time has passed to assess the political and economic failure of the euro project, and that divergences and imbalances have been exacerbated. on unemployment, the british rate is 5.3%. the eurozone rate is twice as high, at 10.7%, even though we have been taking surplus labour off you via migration, and yet you want more compulsory integration rather than setting disparate economies free in their own currencies with their own interest rate regimes, supervised by their own democracies. the hole you are digging now is so deep you will soon be able to bury the eu’s entire economic prospects inside it.
mr president, twenty years ago europe initiated a momentous decree to bring about a great beacon of hope to millions of europeans, or so they said. at this christmas time, instead of hope, joy and happiness, the spirit of european life is being extinguished for those trapped in the consequences of this failed european political project. at this christmas time, 23 million people will be unemployed across all of europe. at this christmas time: 53% of greek youth unemployment, 49% of young people unemployed in spain and 48% of young people unemployed in italy. the prospects for the future of the eurozone are not great either. we see the gaps in investment increasing year on year. eurozone productivity is declining from 0.6% to 0.2%. the share of world gdp will decline to 14% by 2018 and further. but there are those in this commission, like mr moscovici, who said to me that he did not recognise the europe of high unemployment and high suicides like those in greece. there are those in this parliament, like mr theurer, who do not recognise that the euro is an element of competitiveness, and how it improves the prospects of european economies. there are those in the eurogroup like yourself, mr dijsselbloem, who are probably enjoying the too many dinners and meetings with those from goldman sachs and the bankers who will give you the indication that the capital markets union is beneficial for europe – it is beneficial for them. we have come to a momentous time for europe, a time when the british vote to leave the european union will not only free my nation but will give european nations the impetus to consider a bright, better future and a christmas that all can enjoy.
madam president, the eu needs more economic growth and it needs to become more competitive. the recommendations made are balanced instruments. the euro area needs to get back on track economically. that means not just focusing on deficiencies in some smaller southern member states, but also on larger member states, where domestic demand needs to be stimulated. and yes, labour markets need reform, but reform in the right direction. it needs to be easier to hire people, not to fire them. the priority has to be to reduce the 25 million unemployed people in the eu, not to increase that number. moreover, people need proper contracts and social protection, and not zero-hour contracts. but what of the problems with these recommendations? they focus just on the euro area, but as a union the eu is highly interdependent. we are 28 members in this club and we are all interlinked. therefore, it is in all our interests to have a well-performing euro area. deficits, excessive debt and imbalances all need to be properly tackled in a socially acceptable way. representing the uk, our ties are close: 40% of our exports go to the euro area and major uk-owned banks have financial exposure to the euro area totalling almost twice their capital, worth a quarter of the uk’s gdp. in a couple of days, the council will be discussing the reforms on economic governance and competitiveness proposed by the british prime minister ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against asylum matters being determined at european union level, and therefore by extension to oppose this proposed agreement.
in writing. – ukip fundamentally opposes any attempt by the eu to determine the uk’s immigration policy. this would include involving switzerland in the process. we note that the swiss people are much more eurosceptic than their political class, and suspect this agreement may have something to do with this.
in writing. ‒ during this time of crisis it is especially important that we work together with our partners to solve europe’s migration problems, so i welcome this cooperation agreement with switzerland. switzerland already participates in the dublin regulation so by allowing switzerland to participate formally in the european asylum support office we enable them to offer much-needed expertise and assistance in order to ensure that the dublin regulation continues to operate effectively in europe. the long—term effective operation of the dublin regulation is something that we in the uk have very much prioritised in the area of asylum and migration.
in writing. ‒ ukip fundamentally opposes any attempt by the eu to determine the uk’s immigration policy. this would include involving switzerland in the process. we note that the swiss people are much more eurosceptic than their political class, and suspect this agreement may have something to do with this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office given close practical cooperation on asylum matters is of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, whose purpose is to conclude the arrangement with switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the proposal provides for switzerland’s full participation in the activities of the support office and representation in its management board as an observer, without voting rights. it will also result in an annual financial contribution from switzerland to the budget of the support office.
in writing. – my colleagues and i fundamentally oppose any attempt by the eu to determine the uk’s immigration policy. this would include involving switzerland in the process. we note that the swiss people are much more eurosceptic than their political class, and suspect this agreement may have something to do with this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is simply ratifying an agreement with switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote in favour of giving consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the eu agreement with the swiss federation which allows switzerland to participate in easo’s work as well as receive support from easo. in addition, switzerland will also be represented in the easo management board as observers.
in writing. ‒ ukip fundamentally opposes any attempt by the eu to determine the uk’s immigration policy. this would include involving switzerland in the process. we note that the swiss people are much more eurosceptic than their political class, and suspect this agreement may have something to do with this.
in writing. ‒ ukip fundamentally opposes any attempt by the eu to determine the uk’s immigration policy. this would include involving switzerland in the process. we note that the swiss people are much more eurosceptic than their political class, and suspect this agreement may have something to do with this.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any asylum policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ at a time when thousands of people are seeking asylum in europe, a coordinated asylum policy is crucial. it is a priority that member states cooperate more closely on asylum matters, and this must include cooperation with switzerland. the proposal can only be concluded once the european parliament gives its consent to the agreement. for this reason i feel it is only right to vote in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report ratifying the agreement which allows switzerland to participate in the work of the european asylum support office (easo). additionally, the report enables switzerland to receive support from easo and be represented as an observer in the easo management board.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with dominica along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships that this agreement with dominica will hopefully provide. however, as the deal concerns the visa regime operated by the member states which belong to the schengen area, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows for eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica, not only because it requires parliament’s consent to go through, but because we should also be seeking to improve our relations with the countries of the caribbean. it is highly significant that we bring eu citizens and the people of dominica closer together; it will mean a boost in tourism – especially for dominica – and it will step up economic and cultural relations, intensifying political dialogue on various issues, most importantly human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i voted against this legislative vote with my ukip meps’ vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica – which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica, not only because it requires parliament’s consent to go through, but we should also be seeking to improve our relations with the countries of the caribbean. it is highly significant that we bring eu citizens and the people of dominica closer together; it will mean a boost in tourism – especially for dominica – and it will step up economic and cultural relations, intensifying political dialogue on various issues, most importantly human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with vanuatu along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with vanuatu will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows for eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ the new visa regime, which i voted in favour of, will provide visa-free travel for eu citizens and will bring the people of vanuatu and the european union closer together, as well as giving the south pacific island nation a much needed boost in tourism. this is an incredibly significant development between the republic and the eu, and will allow us to extend our dialogue regarding fundamental freedoms with the states that we are issuing short-stay visa waivers to.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu, to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i voted against this legislative vote with my ukip meps regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the new visa regime, which i voted in favour of, will provide visa-free travel for eu citizens and will bring the people of vanuatu and the european union closer together, as well as giving the south pacific island nation a much needed boost in tourism. this is an incredibly significant development between the republic and the eu, and will allow us to extend our dialogue regarding fundamental freedoms with the states that we are issuing short-stay visa waivers to.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with trinidad and tobago along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with trinidad and tobago will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows for eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen, such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ with this agreement the citizens of the eu would have the opportunity to travel visa-free to the republic of trinidad and tobago for a maximum period of 90 days within any 180-day period. this will come as good news to the families in the west midlands who have relatives in this caribbean republic. i voted in favour of this agreement because it will bring people closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i voted against this legislative vote with my fellow ukip meps regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote for this report as this agreement will dynamise tourism and help to intensify trade and investment relations, the eu being ranked second among the trading partners of trinidad and tobago. the visa waiver will simplify conditions for travel by business people and will facilitate investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ with this agreement the citizens of the eu would have the opportunity to travel visa-free to the republic of trinidad and tobago for a maximum period of 90 days within any 180-day period. this will come as good news to the families in the west midlands who have relatives in this caribbean republic. i voted in favour of this agreement because it will bring people closer and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states not part of schengen, such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with samoa along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with samoa will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ this agreement represents a culmination of the deepening relations between the independent state of samoa and the european union. it will bring people closer together and boost tourism. but i also feel that it was incredibly important to vote in favour of this agreement because, although samoa is a relatively small country, the potential benefits in terms of political dialogue on things like human rights and fundamental freedoms will reveal how much of a beneficial force the european union is in the world when it comes to extending these norms we hold valuable.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i, with my fellow ukip colleagues voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. it should be noted that no eu member state has a consulate in samoa, which means that at present samoan nationals must incur substantial costs in order to apply for and obtain visas abroad. the visa waiver will therefore constitute a definite advantage for travel to the european union for purposes of tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this agreement represents both a culmination of the deepening relations between the independent state of samoa and the european union. it will bring people closer together and boost tourism. but i also feel that it was incredibly important to vote in favour of this agreement because, although samoa is a relatively small country, the potential benefits in terms of political dialogue on things like human rights and fundamental freedoms will reveal how much of a beneficial force the european union is in the world when it comes to extending these norms we hold valuable.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states that are not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with grenada along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with grenada will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ this agreement represents the deepening relations between the european union and grenada – which is politically highly significant, an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i, with my fellow ukip colleagues voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas simultaneously represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and grenada – which is politically highly significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ just as the report was adopted by a huge majority in the committee, it was great to see it being adopted with as much enthusiasm in the plenary today. i am happy to say that i voted in favour of this agreement which the commission has negotiated on behalf of the eu. this agreement will allow visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union to travel to grenada for a maximum of 90 days (in any 180-day period). this will come as good news to those families in my constituency who have family and friends in grenada, as well as those who might want to go on holiday to this island. there will be less hassle when travelling here and it will bring a welcome boost in tourism for this country. furthermore it will allow us to increase the political dialogue with grenada and promote our aims and goals in terms of human rights, climate change and whole range of other things.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states that are not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with timor-leste along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with east timor will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that is about the negotiation by the commission with timor-leste on a short-stay visa waiver which represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and timor-leste – which is politically highly significant.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i, with my fellow ukip colleagues voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal and would like to stress the by no means negligible impact which the visa waiver will have on rapprochement between the peoples of europe and the pacific. the visa waiver agreement will enable citizens not only to derive full benefit from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at a reduced, economical and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this agreement with this young country. as the first new state of the 21st century, it is incredibly important both for this country’s future and standing in the world, but also that the eu establishes, maintains and develops good relations with every democratic state in the world. this agreement will bring about a boost in tourism for the country and bring people closer together.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states that are not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with saint lucia along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with saint lucia will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is about the negotiations between the commission and saint lucia on a short-stay visa waiver. this step is politically significant including an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i, with my fellow ukip colleagues voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this agreement. saint lucia is a young country, with limited resources and a small population, which has nonetheless succeeded in attaining or even exceeding some of the millennium development goals, thereby attesting to its commitment to fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ culminating the deepening of relations between the eu and saint lucia, this agreement comes at an important time for saint lucia. it will allow for eu citizens, in any 180-day period, to travel to saint lucia visa-free for 90 days. this new visa regime will provide more tourist opportunities for this caribbean state and bring people closer together.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states that are not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ this is the fifth caribbean country that we have voted in favour of a new visa regime for today, and this will bring a lot of benefits to this windward islands nation. it is regrettable that members from the enf voted against these agreements at committee level, and evidently do not wish for better relationships with these countries. these agreements will step up economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various important issues, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i, with my fellow ukip colleagues voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement. saint vincent and the grenadines is now a plural and open democracy which, since it became independent in 1979, has held eight free and democratic elections and has seen three peaceful transfers of power between political parties. civil and political rights and fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of speech and assembly, are protected by the constitution. saint vincent and the grenadines has made considerable progress towards attaining the millennium development goals. the conclusion of this agreement will create opportunities for cooperation in fundamental areas such as human rights and make it possible to conduct a regular and balanced political dialogue on more specific issues such as domestic violence or gender equality, which remain priorities for the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this is the fifth caribbean country that we have voted in favour of a new visa regime for today, and this will bring a lot of benefits to this windward islands nation. it is regrettable that members from the enf voted against these agreements at committee level, and evidently do not wish for better relationships with these countries. these agreements will step up economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various, important issues, such as human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states that are not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is consistent with the principles of ukip to vote against such issues being determined at european union level. it is for individual sovereign nations to determine their own visa requirements, and to assess whether or not a short-stay visa waiver scheme is appropriate for them. this opposition should not be taken as making any commentary upon the appropriateness of the united kingdom, hypothetically, making a bilateral agreement with the united arab emirates along similar lines.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the potential commercial opportunities through increased tourism numbers and enhanced business relationships this agreement with the united arab emirates will hopefully provide. however, as this deal concerns the visa regime operated by schengen member states, from which the united kingdom has opted out, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver programme which allows eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement takes into account the situation of the member states that are not part of schengen such as ireland and the uk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses on the negotiations carried out by the commission with the united arab emirates on a short-stay visa waiver. the visa waiver agreement must be viewed in a wider context as a tool for intensifying cooperation, in which context both parties have a shared interest in stabilising the macro-region and acting as sound and reliable partners in combating terrorism, trafficking in persons and climate change.
in writing. ‒ as with the majority of my constituents in wales, i do not feel that it is the place of the eu to decide who can and cannot come into my country. i voted against.
in writing. – i, with my fellow ukip colleagues voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short-term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the agreement as it provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and will boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the agreement on short-stay visa waiver and allows for eu citizens and citizens of the participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i would like to support this decision because the czech republic was among the eu member states that had a visa obligation with the united arab emirates. i am in favour of a uniform visa policy within the eu and of the eu negotiating uniform conditions for all its member states in this field, if possible, of course, in view of the international situation.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote regarding the granting of short term visas. although this vote only relates to the schengen area, which the uk is not part of, ukip opposes the principle that the eu can decide immigration policy for any member state. the only people who should decide immigration policy and visas are nationally elected and accountable governments, not undemocratic eu institutions in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in any visa policy so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ although this is the last of the countries which the european parliament has granted its consent for a new visa regime, it is also one of the most significant. this is because the political relations between the eu and the uae have, since 1988, been based on a cooperation agreement through the gulf cooperation council and the eu. this waiver of visas agreement will be a tool for intensifying cooperation between the uae and europe, where we both have a great interest in stabilising the macro-region and acting as sound and reliable partners in various fields. i voted in favour of this agreement because it stands testament to the gains to our bilateral relations and our desire to bring people together. it will also bring about a boost in tourism for the united arab emirates.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this agreement which will allow eu citizens and citizens of participating countries to travel to the eu or the participating country without a visa for stays of 90 days or less. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver programme takes into account the situation of member states that are not part of schengen such as the uk and ireland.
in writing. ‒ these reports relate to the visa regime operated by schengen member states. as the uk is outside of the schengen area and will not take part in the agreement, i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, it is natural for me to oppose such harmonisation. it enhances further the involvement of eurojust in the single market via its relationship with the office for harmonisation in the internal market.
in writing. – ukip voted today to oppose approval of the enhancement of the relationship between eurojust and ohim. we have always opposed the existence of eurojust as a proto-eu ministry of justice with overarching powers over many aspects of the legal regimes of member states. in particular we oppose anything (such as the instant vote) that extends the remit of eurojust and the parameters of its activities, especially where that introduces further regulation of the single market.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted today to oppose approval of the enhancement of the relationship between eurojust and ohim. we have always opposed the existence of eurojust as a proto-eu ministry of justice with overarching powers over many aspects of the legal regimes of member states. in particular we oppose anything (such as the instant vote) that extends the remit of eurojust and the parameters of its activities, especially where that introduces further regulation of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this memorandum of understanding, given it is crucial to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in compliance with their respective mandates. crucial in gaining my support was the fact that any exchange of information or experience provided for in this mou does not include the transmission of operational information including data relating to an identified or identifiable person.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the parliament should give a favourable opinion on the council implementing decision approving the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. i am confident that such a memorandum will improve the functioning of both eurojust and of the office for harmonisation in the internal market.
in writing. – my colleagues and i voted today to oppose approval of the enhancement of the relationship between eurojust and ohim. we have always opposed the existence of eurojust as a proto-eu ministry of justice with overarching powers over many aspects of the legal regimes of member states. in particular we oppose anything (such as the instant vote) that extends the remit of eurojust and the parameters of its activities, especially where that introduces further regulation of the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the memorandum as its purpose is to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in compliance with their respective mandates.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum of understanding (mou) is to foster cooperation between eurojust and ohim in compliance with their respective mandates. a provision which is particularly worthy of attention is article 3(5) of the mou, whereby ‘[e]xchange of information or experience provided for in this mou shall not include the transmission of operational information including data relating to an identified or identifiable person’. this clarification was positively welcomed by the joint supervisory body of eurojust. the rapporteur fully endorses this approach and calls on the council to be vigilant of the implementation in practice of the data protection guarantee enshrined in article 3(5) of the mou.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which will ensure cooperation between eurojust and ohim in areas in which their interests overlap, for example in cyber-piracy.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted today to oppose approval of the enhancement of the relationship between eurojust and ohim. we have always opposed the existence of eurojust as a proto-eu ministry of justice with overarching powers over many aspects of the legal regimes of member states. in particular we oppose anything (such as the instant vote) that extends the remit of eurojust and the parameters of its activities, especially where that introduces further regulation of the single market.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted today to oppose approval of the enhancement of the relationship between eurojust and ohim. we have always opposed the existence of eurojust as a proto-eu ministry of justice with overarching powers over many aspects of the legal regimes of member states. in particular we oppose anything (such as the instant vote) that extends the remit of eurojust and the parameters of its activities, especially where that introduces further regulation of the single market.
in writing. ‒ the memorandum of understanding subject to this vote enhances further the involvement of eurojust in the single market which i am against. so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the parliament should give a favourable opinion on the council implementing decision approving the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. i am confident that such a memorandum will improve the functioning of both eurojust and of the office for harmonisation in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust as it lays the ground for good cooperation in areas where ohim and eurojust interests overlap, such as in cyber-piracy.
in writing. ‒ whilst there are certain positives in this report, i felt it necessary to oppose the report because of the three-twelfths principle which it supports. furthermore, it supports measures which take away the rights of certain regulatory boards and ombudsmen of member states.
in writing. – ukip will be voting against this report. there are certain positives in this report that relate to the fact that political (financial) bargaining should be refrained from regarding member state contributions. there is a call to ensure that member states pay 3/12th of gni and vat resources in the first half of the year to deal with the payment backlog of the previous year; this is directed towards the european agricultural guarantee fund and in particular the european structural and investment funds. to boost the speed and efficiency of payments there is a strong point made to eliminate political interference. however, we do need this in order to question what is going on relating to gni and vat resources being submitted by member states. the onus of management includes accounting procedures and practices indicating a uniformed approach to accounting and submitting of contributions. there is no way we can support such measures that take away the rights of our own british regulatory boards and financial ombudsman offices. there is also a call on the commission to alter its proposal so that it fits in with article 293(2) of the tfeu and article 106(a) of the euratom treaty.
in writing. ‒ ukip will be voting against this report. there are certain positives in this report that relate to the fact that political (financial) bargaining should be refrained from regarding member state contributions. there is a call to ensure that member states pay 3/12th of gni and vat resources in the first half of the year to deal with the payment backlog of the previous year; this is directed towards the european agricultural guarantee fund and in particular the european structural and investment funds. to boost the speed and efficiency of payments there is a strong point made to eliminate political interference. however, we do need this in order to question what is going on relating to gni and vat resources being submitted by member states. the onus of management includes accounting procedures and practices indicating a uniformed approach to accounting and submitting of contributions. there is no way we can support such measures that take away the rights of our own british regulatory boards and financial ombudsman offices. there is also a call on the commission to alter its proposal so that it fits in with article 293(2) of the tfeu and article 106(a) of the euratom treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this non-legislative consultation of parliament which concerns a number of changes that were made to the system for vat and gni-based own resources contributions in response to uk government requests. the changes were made in response to last year’s budget surcharge incident where a number of member states were required to pay additional amounts based upon an adjustment to past gni calculations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which comes as a response to uk government requests for the changes outlined in this report. after intense discussion within the council, it would be great to see the commission’s aims of avoiding any problematic situations linked to the technical recalculations of the methods and procedures which make available the traditional, value-added-tax and gross-national-income-based own-resources.
in writing. ‒ there are certain positives in this report that relate to the fact that political (financial) bargaining should be refrained from regarding member state contributions. there is a call to ensure that member states pay 3/12th of gni and vat resources in the first half of the year to deal with the payment backlog of the previous year; this is directed towards the european agricultural guarantee fund and in particular the european structural and investment funds. to boost the speed and efficiency of payments there is a strong point made to eliminate political interference. however, we do need this in order to question what is going on relating to gni and vat resources being submitted by member states. the onus of management includes accounting procedures and practices indicating a uniformed approach to accounting and submitting of contributions. there is no way we can support such measures that take away the rights of our own british regulatory boards and financial ombudsman offices. there is also a call on the commission to alter its proposal so that it fits in with article 293(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 106(a) of the euratom treaty
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and hope that these technical adjustments discourage future late payments.
in writing. – my colleagues and i will be voting against this report. there are certain positives in this report and those relate to the fact that political (financial) bargaining should be refrained from regarding member state contributions. there is a call to ensure that member states pay 3/12th of gni and vat resources in the first half of the year to deal with the payment backlog of the previous year; this is directed towards the european agricultural guarantee fund and in particular the european structural and investment funds. to boost the speed and efficiency of payments there is a strong point made to eliminate political interference. however, we do need this in order to question what is going on relating to gni and vat resources being submitted by member states. the onus of management includes accounting procedures and practices indicating a uniformed approach to accounting and submitting of contributions. there is no way we can support such measures that take away the rights of our own british regulatory boards and financial ombudsman offices. there is also a call on the commission to alter its proposal so that it fits in with article 293(2) of the tfeu and article 106(a) of the euratom treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, as it is aimed at avoiding any problematic situation linked to technical recalculations.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal which stresses the need for the timely delivery of payments to beneficiaries of the european union budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i consider the commission proposal as appropriate to address the shortcomings of the current regulation with the aim of ensuring that member states make their contributions to the eu budget in a timely manner and to avoid political disputes about the timing of payments.
in writing. ‒ ukip will be voting against this report. there are certain positives in this report that relate to the fact that political (financial) bargaining should be refrained from regarding member state contributions. there is a call to ensure that member states pay 3/12th of gni and vat resources in the first half of the year to deal with the payment backlog of the previous year; this is directed towards the european agricultural guarantee fund and in particular the european structural and investment funds. to boost the speed and efficiency of payments there is a strong point made to eliminate political interference. however, we do need this in order to question what is going on relating to gni and vat resources being submitted by member states. the onus of management includes accounting procedures and practices indicating a uniformed approach to accounting and submitting of contributions. there is no way we can support such measures that take away the rights of our own british regulatory boards and financial ombudsman offices. there is also a call on the commission to alter its proposal so that it fits in with article 293(2) of the tfeu and article 106(a) of the euratom treaty.
in writing. ‒ ukip will be voting against this report. there are certain positives in this report that relate to the fact that political (financial) bargaining should be refrained from regarding member state contributions. there is a call to ensure that member states pay 3/12th of gni and vat resources in the first half of the year to deal with the payment backlog of the previous year; this is directed towards the european agricultural guarantee fund and in particular the european structural and investment funds. to boost the speed and efficiency of payments there is a strong point made to eliminate political interference. however, we do need this in order to question what is going on relating to gni and vat resources being submitted by member states. the onus of management includes accounting procedures and practices indicating a uniformed approach to accounting and submitting of contributions. there is no way we can support such measures that take away the rights of our own british regulatory boards and financial ombudsman offices. there is also a call on the commission to alter its proposal so that it fits in with article 293(2) of the tfeu and article 106(a) of the euratom treaty.
in writing. ‒ i do not wish to see the eu involved in nation states’ tax policies so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which comes as a response to the uk government requests for the changes outlined in this report. after intense discussion within the council, it would be great to see the commission’s aims of avoiding any problematic situations linked to the technical recalculations of the methods and procedures which make available the traditional, value-added-tax and gross-national-income-based own-resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses the shortcomings of the current regulation in place. the proposal on the ‘methods and procedures for making available the traditional, vat and gni-based own resources and on the measures to meet cash requirements’ aims to ensure member states make their contributions to the eu budget in a timely manner and to avoid political disputes about the timing of payments.
in writing. ‒ this was not a roll-call vote. in the interests of democracy i wish to make it clear that i voted to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr kyrtsos, for the reasons broadly explained in the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report regarding the waiving of immunity of georgios kyrtsos, given the alleged offence (non-payment of part of the salary of a former employee) is unrelated to the office of mr kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the greek constitution stipulates that members of parliament may not be arrested, imprisoned or otherwise confined during their parliamentary term. this vote was to waiver this immunity and have the member, georgios kyrtsos, take part in criminal proceedings. given that the prosecution was initiated a number of years before the member took his post, i have no reason to believe that these proceedings intend to undermine georgios’s character.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons of the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos as the alleged offence clearly has nothing to do with the office of georgios kyrtsos as a member of the european parliament but is rather connected to his former position as manager of two newspaper firms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as i do not believe he should keep his immunity.
in writing. ‒ the greek constitution stipulates that members of parliament may not be arrested, imprisoned or otherwise confined during their parliamentary term. this vote was to waiver this immunity and have the member, georgios kyrtsos, take part in criminal proceedings. given that the prosecution was initiated a number of years before the member took his post, i have no reason to believe that these proceedings intend to undermine georgios’s character.
in writing. ‒ this was not a roll-call vote. in the interests of democracy i wish to make it clear that i did not vote to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr. kouloglou. whilst i accept many of the principles contained within the report, it appears that this relates to a criminal prosecution for libel. as a believer in freedom of speech, i struggle to defend the principle of such comments being criminal rather than civil matters. i make no comment as to whether or not the committee on legal affairs is correct in its interpretation of judgment no 1126/1994 of the greek supreme court, in relation to whether or not this matter is now time-barred.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report concerning the waiver of immunity of stelios kouloglou given the alleged offence is unrelated to this current role as mep.
in writing. ‒ as things stood, the allegations that had been launched against stelios kouloglou could not be brought in front of a court because of the parliamentary immunity which is guaranteed to him under greek law and his position as a member of parliament. because these accusations and criminal proceedings were initiated long before the start of his mandate, i do not believe that they are intended to defame his character.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request as i agree with the reasons for the proposal to waive the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of stelios kouloglou as the alleged offence clearly has nothing to do with the office of stelios kouloglou as a member of the european parliament but is rather connected to his former position as a television reporter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as i do not believe he should keep his immunity.
in writing. ‒ as things stood, the allegations that had been launched against stelios kouloglou could not be brought in front of a court because of the parliamentary immunity which is guaranteed to him under greek law and his position as a member of parliament. because these accusations and criminal proceedings were initiated long before the start of his mandate, i do not believe that they are intended to defame his character.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of finland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – finland submitted an egf application for the redundancies of 1 603 employees. as a result of this, finland is entitled to eur 2 623 200 million to deal with the redundancies, which in total are costing eur 4 372 000 million. this allocation contributes towards 60% of the cost. the application was finalised on the 6 november 2015. the ict industry employed 326 000 employees and in 2014 this amount declined to 276 000; the blame is directed towards the massive decline in sales relating to nokia electronic communications and competition from asian nations that produce similar communication products. mobilisation of the workforce and access to british jobs will form part of the package. the european jobs mobility portal known as eures will be used to access the british jobs market.
in writing. ‒ there is no such thing as public money, so it is essential that eu expenditure is closely scrutinised on the basis of value for money for taxpayers and i do not believe the european globalisation adjustment fund is an efficient tool that offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into labour market. the united kingdom government has never availed itself of funding under the egf due to its inefficiency and i believe it is time that money spent under the egf was put to better use. for these reasons i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ finland submitted an egf application for the redundancies of 1 603 employees. as a result of this, finland is entitled to eur 2 623 200 million to deal with the redundancies, which in total are costing eur 4 372 000 million. this allocation contributes towards 60% of the cost. the application was finalised on 6 november 2015. the ict industry employed 326 000 employees and in 2014 this amount declined to 276 000; the blame is directed towards the massive decline in sales relating to nokia electronic communications and competition from asian nations that produce similar communication products. mobilisation of the workforce and access to british jobs will form part of the package. the european jobs mobility portal known as eures will be used to access the british jobs market.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in response to an application from finland, given the application fulfils the standard eligibility criteria set down by the egf regulation and no special derogation was necessary. this mobilisation was triggered following 1 603 redundancies in 69 enterprises across the whole of finland.
in writing. ‒ there were 1 603 redundancies in 69 enterprises operating in the area of computer programming and consultancy in many finnish regions. this number of redundancies over a short amount of time can only be attributed to a movement of demand away from these enterprises, either due to these services being provided elsewhere or a loss of interest in this industry. and i do not suspect that it is the latter. the egf is something that the tories want to see abolished for ideological reasons. all this while there have been various opportunities for the uk to apply for this funding, with the most recent example being the closure of the steel industry in the uk. i voted in favour of this request because we should show solidarity with the workers of finland, because it is without a doubt that workers in the uk will need to access these funds, and the egf can help those who are made redundant by the effects of globalisation and without much cost to the uk government.
in writing. ‒ finland submitted an egf application for the redundancies of 1 603 employees. as a result of this, finland is entitled to eur 2 623 200 million to deal with the redundancies, which in total are costing eur 4 372 000 million. this allocation contributes towards 60% of the cost. the application was finalised on 6 november 2015. the ict industry employed 326 000 employees and in 2014 this amount declined to 276 000; the blame is directed towards the massive decline in sales relating to nokia electronic communications and competition from asian nations that produce similar communication products. mobilisation of the workforce and access to british jobs will form part of the package. the european jobs mobility portal known as eures will be used to access the british jobs market.
in writing. – finland submitted an egf application for the redundancies of 1 603 employees. as a result of this, finland is entitled to eur 2 623 200 million to deal with the redundancies, which in total are costing eur 4 372 000 million. this allocation contributes towards 60% of the cost. the application was finalised on the 6 november 2015. the ict industry employed 326 000 employees and in 2014 this amount declined to 276 000; the blame is directed towards the massive decline in sales relating to nokia electronic communications and competition from asian nations that produce similar communication products. mobilisation of the workforce and access to british jobs will form part of the package. the european jobs mobility portal known as eures will be used to access the british jobs market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted to mobilise funds for finnish ict workers made redundant because of the decline of nokia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. labour meps have always voted in favour of egf applications and these applications are no different. it is also worth noting that opportunities for the uk to claim from this fund may arise in the near future and the egf could help those made redundant and wider communities affected by large shocks to the local economy. in addition, the egf can do this whilst minimising the cost to the uk government.
in writing. ‒ finland submitted an egf application for the redundancies of 1 603 employees. as a result of this, finland is entitled to eur 2 623 200 million to deal with the redundancies, which in total are costing eur 4 372 000 million. this allocation contributes towards 60% of the cost. the application was finalised on 6 november 2015. the ict industry employed 326 000 employees and in 2014 this amount declined to 276 000; the blame is directed towards the massive decline in sales relating to nokia electronic communications and competition from asian nations that produce similar communication products. mobilisation of the workforce and access to british jobs will form part of the package. the european jobs mobility portal known as eures will be used to access the british jobs market.
in writing. ‒ finland submitted an egf application for the redundancies of 1 603 employees. as a result of this, finland is entitled to eur 2 623 200 million to deal with the redundancies, which in total are costing eur 4 372 000 million. this allocation contributes towards 60% of the cost. the application was finalised on 6 november 2015. the ict industry employed 326 000 employees and in 2014 this amount declined to 276 000; the blame is directed towards the massive decline in sales relating to nokia electronic communications and competition from asian nations that produce similar communication products. mobilisation of the workforce and access to british jobs will form part of the package. the european jobs mobility portal known as eures will be used to access the british jobs market.
in writing. ‒ the uk does not receive money from this fund so in principle i voted against this.
in writing. ‒ there were 1 603 redundancies in 69 enterprises operating in the area of computer programming and consultancy in many finnish regions. this amount of redundancies over a short amount of time can only be attributed to a movement of demand away from these enterprises, either due to these services being provided elsewhere or a loss of interest in this industry. and i don’t suspect it is the latter. the egf is something that the tories want to see abolished for ideological reasons. all this while there have been various opportunities for the uk to apply for this funding, with the most recent example being the closure of the steel industry in the uk. i voted in favour of this request because we should show solidarity with the workers of finland, because it is without a doubt that workers in the uk will need to access these funds, and the egf can help those who are made redundant by the effects of globalisation and without much cost to the uk government.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund which will provide much needed financial contributions following the cuts in the finnish ict sector. 1 603 workers in the ict sector were made redundant in 69 enterprises across finland and the funding granted from the eu will aim to support those affected through, for example, coaching and preparatory measures, employment and business services, training, pay subsidies, start-up grants, steering towards entrepreneurship and services for new entrepreneurs, and allowances for travel, overnight and removal costs.
in writing. ‒ i fully support measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do i believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the proposal to reject the council position, and against the creeping european union involvement in intellectual property rights.
in writing. – ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position subject of this report. firstly the purpose of the report is to implement a regulation amending and modernising the trade mark regime operated by the eu. secondly the regulation would extend and enhance the ‘europeanisation’ of trade mark law and will allow for the further accretion of power over intellectual property issues by the eu. ukip believes that all intellectual property matters should be the preserve of the united kingdom parliament deciding the nature of the trade marks regime exclusively in the british interest.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position subject of this report. firstly the purpose of the report is to implement a regulation amending and modernising the trade mark regime operated by the eu. secondly the regulation would extend and enhance the ‘europeanisation’ of trade mark law and will allow for the further accretion of power over intellectual property issues by the eu. ukip believes that all intellectual property matters should be the preserve of the united kingdom parliament deciding the nature of the trade marks regime exclusively in the british interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the community trade mark regulation which aims to foster innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient. the system is already in place, but with the current modernisation it will be better functional. the trade marks package represents a key legal tool in order to fight against counterfeiting of products, including in my region of the west midlands. our priorities concern preserving public health, safety and jobs, as well as defending fundamental rights. parliament also achieved lower fees of up to 37%, less bureaucracy, more efficiency and a system that benefits the users of trade marks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal because, although the system is already in place, it will function better with the current modernisation developments. the trade marks package is an important legal tool in the fight against the counterfeiting of products. this regulation will be less bureaucratic, more effective and will greatly benefit the users of trade marks.
in writing. ‒ i and my colleagues in ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position subject of this report. firstly the purpose of the report is to implement a regulation amending and modernising the trade mark regime operated by the eu. secondly the regulation would extend and enhance the ‘europeanisation’ of trade mark law and will allow for the further accretion of power over intellectual property issues by the eu. ukip believes that all intellectual property matters should be the preserve of the united kingdom parliament deciding the nature of the trade marks regime exclusively in the british interest.
in writing. ‒ my group has concerns relating to the possibility of this legislation impeding the legitimate trade in generic medicines. i accordingly supported the amendment to reject the agreement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position subject of this report. firstly the purpose of the report is to implement a regulation amending and modernising the trade mark regime operated by the eu. secondly the regulation would extend and enhance the ‘europeanisation’ of trade mark law and will allow for the further accretion of power over intellectual property issues by the eu. ukip believes that all intellectual property matters should be the preserve of the united kingdom parliament deciding the nature of the trade marks regime exclusively in the british interest.
in writing. ‒ i supported the review of the regulation as with the modernisation the system will be better functional. the trade marks package represents a key legal tool in order to fight against counterfeiting of products. its main objective is to foster innovation and economic growth by making trademark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that we got first reading agreement on the community trade mark.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the office for the harmonisation of the internal market (ohim), which has existed since 2013. this legislation is designed to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of ohim as an agency, with particular emphasis on the user-friendliness of the system, and ensuring ongoing parliamentary representation on ohim’s governing board.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position subject of this report. firstly the purpose of the report is to implement a regulation amending and modernising the trade mark regime operated by the eu. secondly the regulation would extend and enhance the ‘europeanisation’ of trade mark law and will allow for the further accretion of power over intellectual property issues by the eu. ukip believes that all intellectual property matters should be the preserve of the united kingdom parliament deciding the nature of the trade marks regime exclusively in the british interest.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position subject of this report. firstly the purpose of the report is to implement a regulation amending and modernising the trade mark regime operated by the eu. secondly the regulation would extend and enhance the ‘europeanisation’ of trade mark law and will allow for the further accretion of power over intellectual property issues by the eu. ukip believes that all intellectual property matters should be the preserve of the united kingdom parliament deciding the nature of the trade marks regime exclusively in the british interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion to reject the original proposal. as i am against the eu bringing in legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal because, although the system is already in place, it will function better with the current modernisation developments. the trade marks package is an important legal tool in the fight against the counterfeiting of products. this regulation will be less bureaucratic, more effective and will greatly benefit the users of trade marks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is a codification taking into account changes made to other pieces of legislation, including the report on the community trade mark.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of this legislation. this legislation will help ensure ohim, the office for the harmonization of the single market is more user-friendly. ohim is responsible for providing trade mark and design protection throughout the european union. this will streamline procedures for individuals and small businesses ensuring respect for their intellectual property rights this works towards protecting these groups and ensuring the rules help rather than hinder them from getting proper redress.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the proposal to reject the council position, and against the creeping european union involvement in intellectual property rights. if anything, i oppose this measure more strongly than the previous one because this seeks to harmonise the law of member states.
in writing. – ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position on this issue. firstly, this report would have approved the issuing of a directive to the united kingdom to pass laws implementing the approved new legislation. in particular the directive has as a substantial purpose, the europeanisation and harmonisation of trade mark law and thus would enable the eu to consolidate its power over this important aspect of intellectual property and remove yet more control over it from member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position on this issue. firstly, this report would have approved the issuing of a directive to the united kingdom to pass laws implementing the approved new legislation. in particular the directive has as a substantial purpose, the europeanisation and harmonisation of trade mark law and thus would enable the eu to consolidate its power over this important aspect of intellectual property and remove yet more control over it from member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report relating to trademarks. i am glad to see that this report aimed to defend consumer rights and protection, reduce counterfeit products, enhance governance and generate innovation and competitiveness. in a welcome change, the eu has finally cut some red tape for businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on laws of member states relating to trade marks. this is a recast of the original file, simply a codification to take into account changes made to other pieces of legislation, including the report regarding the community trade mark.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with a directive about laws of member states relating to trade marks. it is meant to complement the community trade mark regulation, by harmonising national rules on trade marks. in order to harmonise eu and national trade mark systems, the provisions of eu trade marks will also apply to national trade marks. the main objective of the proposal is to foster innovation and economic growth by making trade mark registration systems all over the eu more accessible and efficient. these are all measures that further protect trade marks and foster innovation, which i am all in favour of, hence i supported the outcome of this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position on this issue. firstly, this report would have approved the issuing of a directive to the united kingdom to pass laws implementing the approved new legislation. in particular the directive has as a substantial purpose, the europeanisation and harmonisation of trade mark law and thus would enable the eu to consolidate its power over this important aspect of intellectual property and remove yet more control over it from member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position on this issue. firstly, this report would have approved the issuing of a directive to the united kingdom to pass laws implementing the approved new legislation. in particular the directive has as a substantial purpose, the europeanisation and harmonisation of trade mark law and thus would enable the eu to consolidate its power over this important aspect of intellectual property and remove yet more control over it from member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is simply a codification to take into account changes made to other pieces of legislation.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased we were able to agree at first reading the proposal to approximate the laws of the member states relating to trade marks.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position on this issue. firstly, this report would have approved the issuing of a directive to the united kingdom to pass laws implementing the approved new legislation. in particular the directive has as a substantial purpose, the europeanisation and harmonisation of trade mark law and thus would enable the eu to consolidate its power over this important aspect of intellectual property and remove yet more control over it from member states.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council position on this issue. firstly, this report would have approved the issuing of a directive to the united kingdom to pass laws implementing the approved new legislation. in particular the directive has as a substantial purpose, the europeanisation and harmonisation of trade mark law and thus would enable the eu to consolidate its power over this important aspect of intellectual property and remove yet more control over it from member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion to reject the original proposal as i am against the eu bringing in legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ the recast directive is supposed to complement the community’s trade mark regulations by harmonising national rules on trade marks, and is a part of the same package as the regulation. the priorities that labour meps had for this legislative proposal concerned defending human rights, preserving public health and safety as well as conserving jobs. for me this means guaranteeing a better deal for the people of the west midlands and i believe that these laws will achieve this. furthermore, the european parliament was also able to achieve lower fees – by up to 37% – and made a system that not only benefits the users of trade marks but has lowered the bureaucratic burden and made it far more efficient.
in writing. ‒ this vote should be taken not as an opposition to action to ensure adequate fish stocks, but as a vote against eu seizure of the sovereignty of member states over territorial waters.
in writing. – whilst ukip are in favour of building fish stocks, we oppose the eu signing international agreements like a sovereign nation.
in writing. ‒ whilst we are in favour of building fish stocks, we oppose the eu signing international agreements like a sovereign nation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for an amending regulation to lay down a scheme of control and enforcement in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northeast atlantic fisheries, which will ensure a better long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of fishery resources in the area of the northeast atlantic, bringing lasting environmental and social results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the scheme proposed here, because it is a sound proposal and will include further measures to help fight against illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing. this will guarantee that the fish from the north-east atlantic that reaches the shop shelves in the west midlands will be more ethically and sustainably sourced.
in writing. – whilst we are in favour of building fish stocks, my colleagues and i oppose the eu signing international agreements like a sovereign nation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal as its key aspect is to support the elimination of illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing. such fishing causes considerable environmental and economic loss and has a wider impact on the livelihoods and food security of coastal populations.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. the main amendment to regulation 1236/2010 concerns the alignment of the fao agreement control system on measures pertaining to port state competencies in order to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing. the measures provided by this amendment will ensure a better long-term conservation and optimum utilization of fishery resources in the area of the northeast atlantic, bringing lasting results under the environmental and social aspects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which will lay down a scheme of control and enforcement in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northeast atlantic fisheries. a key aspect of the proposal is to support the elimination of iuu fishing. such fishing causes considerable environmental and economic loss and has a wider impact on the livelihoods and food security of coastal populations. it is difficult to determine the cost of iuu fishing, but it is estimated that it costs the global economy 22 billion euros per year. such pirate fishing also causes significant environmental damage, with fishers usually identifying commercially valuable species that have been caught, and discarding the remainder – often as much as 75% of the total catch.
in writing. ‒ whilst we are in favour of building fish stocks, we oppose the eu signing international agreements like a sovereign nation.
in writing. ‒ whilst we are in favour of building fish stocks, we oppose the eu signing international agreements like a sovereign nation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal as this is a eu jump to take over sovereignty. i do however wish to see the fish stocks protected.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank my colleague ole christensen for the fantastic work he has done on this as rapporteur. i voted in favour of the scheme proposed here, because it is a sound proposal and will include further measures to help fight against illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing. this will guarantee that the fish from the north-east atlantic that reaches the shop shelves in the west midlands will be more ethically and sustainably sourced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which will strengthen the eu's approach to fisheries management in the north-east atlantic; supporting international measures means that eu fisheries procedures can be considered of an international standard.
in writing. ‒ this report is an application of the eu’s usual politicisation of trade. nevertheless, i do have certain concerns with regard to bosnia and herzegovina myself. on balance i therefore abstained.
in writing. – ukip notes that the eu has a track record of economic bullying against countries that refuse to politically obey it. bosnia is no exception and we feel that the eu should not be using trade as a political weapon.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that the eu has a track record of economic bullying against countries that refuse to politically obey it. bosnia is no exception and we feel that the eu should not be using trade as a political weapon.
in writing. ‒ president, because of croatia's accession to the eu it is necessary to adapt the trade part of the stabilisation and association agreements in force. these negotiations have been concluded with all western balkan countries, except bosnia and herzegovina, where they remain blocked. the trade preferences run out at the end of the year for all western balkan countries if this report on their extension does not pass. i supported the suspension of exceptional trade measures with regard to bosnia and herzegovina in order to encourage it to sign up to conclude negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. ‒ since 2000 the eu has granted the countries of the western balkans autonomous trade measures, and that includes bosnia and herzegovina. the commission has proposed to extend the autonomous trade measures until the end of 2020, otherwise they will expire at the end of this month. after long negotiations with the council and commission, regarding which i should thank the rapporteur, maria bettini goffredo, for committing so much of her time, we now have reached an agreement. i voted in favour of this codecision procedure, firstly because i believe that there should be a stable majority in support of the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations. furthermore, the inclusion of a human rights clause in this proposal is a massively important part of the text.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that the eu has a track record of economic bullying against countries that refuse to politically obey it. bosnia is no exception and we feel that the eu should not be using trade as a political weapon.
in writing. – ukip notes that the eu has a track record of economic bullying against countries that refuse to politically obey it. bosnia is no exception and we feel that the eu should not be using trade as a political weapon.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. the outcome of the negotiations is a success for parliament, as it managed to secure the procedure with delegated acts for suspension of trade preferences upon activation of the human rights clause.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of this report i urge bosnia and herzegovina to adapt trade concessions granted under the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with the eu to take into account the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that the eu has a track record of economic bullying against countries that refuse to politically obey it. bosnia is no exception and we feel that the eu should not be using trade as a political weapon.
in writing. ‒ ukip notes that the eu has a track record of economic bullying against countries that refuse to politically obey it. bosnia is no exception and we feel that the eu should not be using trade as a political weapon.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as i do not believe the eu should be involved in trade.
in writing. ‒ since 2000 the eu has granted the countries of the western balkans autonomous trade measures, which includes bosnia and herzegovina. the commission has proposed to extend the autonomous trade measures until the end of 2020, otherwise they will expire at the end of this month. after long negotiations with the council and commission, which i should thank the rapporteur maria bettini goffredo for committing so much of her time towards, we now have reached an agreement. i voted in favour of this codecision procedure, firstly because i believe that there should be a stable majority in support of the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations. furthermore, the inclusion of a human rights clause in this proposal is a massively important part of the text.
in writing. ‒ rather than voting against for the usual reasons, i chose to abstain on this matter as i do not wish to oppose any attempt to support a relatively moderate regime to fight against and track extremists.
in writing. – ukip commends the uae for its role in fighting extremism and notes the strong ties that exist between the uk and the uae. we abstained because we feel that the uk government, and not europol, should be the body that oversees uk intelligence and data sharing with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. the need for more international cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism has been highlighted yet again by recent tragic events in europe. this agreement allows for the exchange of specialist knowledge, strategic analysis, information on crime-prevention methods and support in individual criminal investigations, a useful tool for both the uae and europol. it should also be emphasised that this strategic cooperation agreement does not include the exchange of personal data. the benefits of this deal are clear, and i am happy to support it in today’s vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip commends the uae for its role in fighting extremism and notes the strong ties that exist between the uk and the uae. we abstained because we feel that the uk government, and not europol, should be the body that oversees uk intelligence and data sharing with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as cooperation with other states is the right way to fight serious crime and terrorism. to keep our borders safe and fight against terrorism we must be willing to work with others. information sharing, where necessary, can enhance both security at home and abroad. i am particularly happy with this agreement as no personal data will be shared.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal, which concerns strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. such strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged could include specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ earlier we voted on a visa waiver of 90 days with the uae for eu citizens, this represented an important step towards enhancing our cooperation and relations with abu dhabi. while it is regrettable that parliament has only been given a consultative role, it is an important sign of approval from this place, nevertheless.
in writing. ‒ ukip commends the uae for its role in fighting extremism and notes the strong ties that exist between the uk and the uae. we abstained because we feel that the uk government, and not europol, should be the body that oversees uk intelligence and data sharing with third countries.
in writing. – my colleagues and i commends the uae for its role in fighting extremism and notes the strong ties that exist between the uk and the uae. i abstained because we feel that the uk government, and not europol, should be the body that oversees uk intelligence and data sharing with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement as it will aid and reinforce the fight against financial fraud and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal. there seem to be clear operational needs for europol to cooperate with the united arab emirates. according to europol, the united arab emirates are increasingly relevant in the fight against organized crime as that country is becoming a growing hub for economic and financial crime. proceeds from criminal activities such as value added tax (vat) fraud, missing trader intra community (mtic) fraud and money laundering have been reinvested in the united arab emirates and key criminals involved in these frauds have sought refuge there.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which would strengthen the eu’s strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates, would aid and reinforce the fight against financial fraud and would contribute to enhancing international cooperation in the field of financial investigation and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ ukip commends the uae for its role in fighting extremism and notes the strong ties that exist between the uk and the uae. we abstained because we feel that the uk government, and not europol, should be the body that oversees uk intelligence and data sharing with third countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip commends the uae for its role in fighting extremism and notes the strong ties that exist between the uk and the uae. we abstained because we feel that the uk government, and not europol, should be the body that oversees uk intelligence and data sharing with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as i believe this should be done on a bilateral basis not via the eu.
in writing. ‒ earlier we voted on a visa waiver of 90 days with the uae for eu citizens, this represented an important step towards enhancing our cooperation and relations with abu dhabi. while it is regrettable that the parliament has only been given a consultative role, it is an important sign of approval from this place, nevertheless.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report proposing approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. through information exchange such as specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations we have the chance to make significant improvements in the tackling of economic and financial crime.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to highlight an issue connected with infrastructure in scotland, in particular the current closure of scotland’s most important strategic asset: the forth road bridge. on thursday, 4 december 2015, scotland’s key link route, connecting north and south, was closed due to a structural problem: a 20 mm crack in a load-bearing link. it is estimated that this critical piece of scottish transport infrastructure may reopen on 4 january 2016, weather permitting. obviously, this key piece of strategic infrastructure is the responsibility of the nationalist government in edinburgh, but due to the economic impact this is having on scottish businesses, commuters and other residents, i would like to call on the commission for any action and assistance it may bring to scotland at this critical time.
in writing. ‒ i voted against a fundamentally flawed report. i wish to draw attention to the fact that my vote to support an efdd amendment on nuclear energy was because i oppose eu funding for such activities, and should not be taken in any way as opposition to nuclear power as part of a wider energy basket for those member states which choose to use it.
in writing. – the european commission is determined to revise the ets and the allowance system in order to distribute the available allowances in a more efficient way. we in ukip are against this proposal as we reject a revision of the damaging eu ets system. we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. it has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report as it stands, it proposes weakening the role of national governments in their own energy management, for example requiring the commission to participate in all national negotiations with non-eu countries on energy deals. there is no need for commission participation in these negotiations. additionally, the call for binding national targets on renewables and energy efficiency would prevent individual countries from reducing emissions in a way that reflects their own energy needs. what countries in europe need are fully liberalised energy markets that will bring down the high energy prices that consumers and businesses are having to live with. this report is not the answer to those problems and i so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is determined to revise the ets and the allowance system in order to distribute the available allowances in a more efficient way. we in ukip are against this proposal as we reject a revision of the damaging eu ets system. we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. it has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the opportunity to address what is a very important issue for consumers and businesses across europe. making better connections in terms of energy supply and innovative storage solutions holds inherent benefits for a higher quality of life and economic prosperity within societies across the member states. there are, however, several factors that i feel we should keep in mind at this time. first of all, i would caution against an expansion of energy resources to eastern europe and our external neighbours before proper attention has been given to solidifying our own market. for instance, in my own constituency, we see very much a rural-urban divide. there are agri-food businesses based in the west of the province that stand to bring growth to the local economy, however are not able to access affordable energy or connect to the grid for electricity or wind power. the eu has a role to play in this sense, and i would urge the institutions to continue to support the pcis that have been selected in the united kingdom and northern ireland to help meet these challenges.
in writing. – conservatives welcome much of the ambition behind the energy union given the current fragmented nature of energy policy at the eu level. it must help drive the completion of the internal energy market – without fully liberalised markets our energy supplies will be less secure and more expensive. conservatives, however, voted against the report as it did not reflect the council’s agreement on the 2030 climate and energy strategy from october 2014 – which agreed on a requirement for a 40% cut in emissions, without binding national renewable and efficiency targets. we believe that this technology neutral framework will allow the uk reach its emission reduction goals in a way that is cost effective and tailored to our own specific needs. furthermore we are concerned at calls within the report for member states to negotiate intergovernmental energy deals jointly and/or mandate the commission to participate in all member state negotiations with third countries on such agreements. while we have sympathy with countries that are unduly vulnerable to a single supplier over long-term energy contracts, we do not support a one-size-fits-all approach that provides the european commission with a role that is neither needed nor requested by all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as a one-size fits all approach to energy will not work. i welcome the key objectives of energy security and competitiveness. however, the eu should seek a flexible approach and allow member states to decide on their own energy mix. parliament should seek to fully liberalise the energy market and not to bind member states in restrictive targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is determined to revise the ets and the allowance system in order to distribute the available allowances in a more efficient way. we in ukip are against this proposal as we reject a revision of the damaging eu ets system. we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. it has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
in writing. ‒ in my constituency we are, in the words of the east of england energy group, “unique” as we include energy producers across a diverse range including nuclear, gas and renewables. my region is key to britain keeping the lights turned on. indeed 60 per cent of the offshore wind in the uk comes from just off the east of england coastline. in norfolk alone, up to 5000 megawatts in planned capacity could be unlocked within the next 15 years, by three new offshore projects that would come from a meshed grid project in the north sea. in my work as a local mep, i have specifically backed a european project to create a north sea grid for trading renewable energy, as well as the project to host a new gas interconnector. therefore i deeply welcome the proposals in today's vote which will support the building of interconnectors between the uk and nine other eu countries and the creation of a north sea electricity grid which will reduce electricity prices, increase energy security and promote renewable energy. it will also create thousands of permanent, high-skilled, uk jobs, many which will be for my constituency.
in writing. ‒ whilst there was much in this report to commend it, this house retains its nuclear obsession. nuclear power is expensive and dangerous and should have no role in the long term development of eu energy policy. accordingly, on balance, i could not support the report as a whole.
in writing. – the european commission is determined to revise the ets and the allowance system in order to distribute the available allowances in a more efficient way. my colleagues and i are against this proposal as we reject a revision of the damaging eu ets system. we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. it has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report. the energy union must provide eu citizens with secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is determined to revise the ets and the allowance system in order to distribute the available allowances in a more efficient way. we in ukip are against this proposal as we reject a revision of the damaging eu ets system. we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. it has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is determined to revise the ets and the allowance system in order to distribute the available allowances in a more efficient way. we in ukip are against this proposal as we reject a revision of the damaging eu ets system. we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states. it has caused job losses, plant closures and a massive outflow of industry and investment outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not wish to see the eu write any more legislation than could hinder the uk energy market. eu energy policy has been a huge failure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe strongly that the energy union will ensure the transition to a clean and renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a stable, secure and affordable energy system. if implemented correctly. overall i am pleased with the outcome of the vote and i'm glad to see the resolution adopted with such a large majority.
in writing. ‒ as my own constituents in the north-west of england have been hit by the floods of storm desmond, the eu must do all it can to invest in sustainable energy, and in the fight against climate change. eu energy policy must refocus from centring on fossil fuel to focusing on renewables, energy efficiency and intelligent infrastructure. there must be urgent action on energy poverty, which the european commission must lead by presenting a communication on energy poverty in europe, accompanied by an action plan to fight against it. if properly implemented, the energy union – the framework for upcoming legislation on energy – will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, putting the interests of consumers first and ensuring a secure, stable, affordable energy system.
in writing. ‒ this report is the parliament's response to the european commission energy union strategy. i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable, affordable energy system.
mr president, today the longest interconnector in europe is being designed, between south-east northumberland and norway. using a sub-sea cable, energy generated from renewable sources will be transferred between our countries, and it is a blueprint for europe on how renewables can be traded as part of the energy union. the proposed energy union offers key opportunities for us in the north—east, firstly because we have the manufacturing knowhow needed to deliver from oil and gas industries to renewables, and secondly because we understand the north sea. but funding new low-carbon technologies such as carbon capture storage is crucial if we want to meet our climate and energy commitments, particularly those taken in paris last week: projects like the teesside collective. george osborne’s slashing of national renewables in ccs funding represents short—termism incarnate. energy union is the opposite. it is about investment and jobs long-term, and that is why i supported the reports today.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on electricity interconnection. i particularly welcome that the report stresses explicitly that projects of common interest (pci) must be developed in a more transparent and accountable manner and crucially take into account economic, social and environmental impacts. it further underlines that public awareness and support is essential and projects should be coherent with local acceptance. the current proposal for the north-south interconnector on the other hand, ignores the issue of needing local acceptance. whilst sinn féin recognise the need for better electricity connections across the island, communities from both the north and south of ireland have expressed their strong concerns and rejection of any proposed overhead pylon connection. sinn féin stands with these concerned local communities and demands that any electricity connection along the north-south interconnection is undergrounded.
in writing. ‒ in voting against this measure, i note that the proposed interconnection target would cost in the region of eur 40 billion.
in writing. – we in ukip reject the eu commission proposal on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection target which is designed to facilitate the use of expensive renewables. we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen. we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip reject the eu commission proposal on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection target which is designed to facilitate the use of expensive renewables. we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen. we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
in writing. ‒ i fundamentally agree with the premise of supporting better connections across europe in terms of access to, and the supply of, electricity. these efforts have the potential to break down barriers to cross-border trade by supporting local businesses to internationalise through swifter, reliable and affordable energy supply. in aiming for a far-reaching expansion and consolidation of the electricity market, however, we must not forget about those in countries where supply is well established, but who still struggle to access electricity affordable for their homes and businesses. i think in particular of households and businesses in rural northern ireland, many of whom simply want the resources and support to set up home or their enterprise in their local, rural community. these are individuals who have faced clear challenges in recent years to connect to the grid. i know there are coordinated efforts being made by my colleagues in the northern ireland executive to bridge these gaps, however i do feel there is more to be done at westminster, and indeed within the eu institutions, to send a message that the overarching vision of a continent interconnected is more pertinent than protecting grassroots communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip reject the eu commission proposal on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection target which is designed to facilitate the use of expensive renewables. we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen. we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
in writing. ‒ this report notes that offshore wind in the north sea has the potential to generate 8% of europe’s power supply by 2030, and much of this capacity is in scottish waters. scotland, however, has to operate within an irrational uk energy framework and transmission charges are prohibitively high for scottish producers. once again a tory government at westminster cuts scotland off from the european mainstream.
in writing. – i rejected the eu commission proposal on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection target which is designed to facilitate the use of expensive renewables. my colleagues and i oppose an eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen. we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal. fully integrating the eu electricity market could cut bills by at least eur 2 per mwh, and thus save users up to eur 40 billion a year by 2030, but to achieve this eu countries need to invest eur 150 billion to interconnect their national grids.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip reject the eu commission proposal on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection target which is designed to facilitate the use of expensive renewables. we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen. we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
in writing. ‒ we in ukip reject the eu commission proposal on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection target which is designed to facilitate the use of expensive renewables. we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen. we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i disagree with the commission's proposal to have a 10% electricity connection target, which cost tax payers up to 40bn euro.
in writing. ‒ together, with my socialist colleagues, i voted in favour of this own initiative report because i believe that strong political support and new measures are needed to guarantee that the electricity network of europe is properly connected and that no member state is isolated. with eight member states still yet to meet the target of having at least 10% of their electricity generation capacity able to be exported and imported with it neighbouring countries, we need a more integrated energy market. this report calls for exactly that: a truly integrated internal energy market - as part of the energy union - which would bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the importance of interconnections to the internal energy market, but also rightly recognises that targets for achieving interconnection must be relevant and reflect the specific circumstances of member states.
in writing. ‒ i was in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected. a linked-up energy system could also bring potential gains in terms of the price of energy. integration will encourage efficiency by allowing the cross border sharing of best practice and creating a more unified energy grid will encourage supply security by promoting alternative energy sources. we cannot afford to carry on our dependency on the dwindling supplies of fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ i oppose further eu spending. however laudable microfinance might be, the principle of subsidiarity would suggest that such matters can be better dealt with – and doubtless, less bureaucratically – by member states (or even local administrations).
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls to expand the scope and increase the funding and reach of this eu programme. it calls on the commission to view refugees and asylum seekers as a target group for this money and that this instrument contributes to the eu’s ‘added value’. while in principle we fully support small business and want to help micro-enterprises gain access to loans, we cannot support this measure which is not very well known and barely used by uk businesses. it effectively takes money off british taxpayers to hand out to businesses in poorer eu countries. the only people who should decide how we spend taxpayers’ money and create legislation to help smes are our own elected and accountable national government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls to expand the scope and increase the funding and reach of this eu programme. it calls on the commission to view refugees and asylum seekers as a target group for this money and that this instrument contributes to the eu’s ‘added value’. while in principle we fully support small business and want to help micro-enterprises gain access to loans, we cannot support this measure which is not very well known and barely used by uk businesses. it effectively takes money off british taxpayers to hand out to businesses in poorer eu countries. the only people who should decide how we spend taxpayers’ money and create legislation to help smes are our own elected and accountable national government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility given its vital role in providing access to financing for groups in society who usually struggle to do so. the epmf has granted eur 124.6 million to people who would not normally have access to financing. i also welcome the european parliament report’s call for a better social impact reporting and targeting of vulnerable groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report because we need to have a more effective implementation of the european progress microfinance facility (epmf). the epmf has granted eur 124.6 million to people who would not normally have access to financing. its effectiveness in the case of disadvantaged groups is less clear, and that is why i welcome the european parliament report’s call for a better social impact reporting and targeting of vulnerable groups
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls to expand the scope and increase the funding and reach of this eu programme. it calls on the commission to view refugees and asylum seekers as a target group for this money and that this instrument contributes to the eu’s ‘added value’. while in principle we fully support small business and want to help micro-enterprises gain access to loans, we cannot support this measure which is not very well known and barely used by uk businesses. it effectively takes money off british taxpayers to hand out to businesses in poorer eu countries. the only people who should decide how we spend taxpayers’ money and create legislation to help smes are our own elected and accountable national government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report and in particular support the clauses highlighting that microfinance should be available beyond smes.
in writing. – i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls to expand the scope and increase the funding and reach of this eu programme. it calls on the commission to view refugees and asylum seekers as a target group for this money and that this instrument contributes to the eu’s ‘added value’. while in principle i fully support small business and want to help micro-enterprises gain access to loans, i cannot support this measure which is not very well known and barely used by uk businesses. it effectively takes money off british taxpayers to hand out to businesses in poorer eu countries. the only people who should decide how we spend taxpayers’ money and create legislation to help smes are our own elected and accountable national government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ the epmf has granted eur 124.6 million to people who would not normally have access to financing. its effectiveness in the case of disadvantaged groups is less clear, and that is why i welcome the european parliament report’s call for a better social impact reporting and targeting of vulnerable groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which ‘stresses the importance of a financial instrument such as the facility in times of financial crisis in creating new undertakings, promoting new employment and ensuring that unemployed, disadvantaged people and microenterprises have access to financing, while mitigating the risk for mfis’.
in writing. – conservatives voted in favour of this report. we believe that smes and microenterprises represent a huge opportunity for growth and job creation and will support any initiatives that help them do this. we believe that the implementation of this facility in many member states has contributed to economic growth and social inclusion, and has enabled worthy entrepreneurs to get their projects off the ground. conservatives’ guiding principle is that any proposal or initiatives derived from the eu which has an impact on citizens’ lives, both in terms of financial cost and quality of life, must reflect the principle of ‘eu added value’. we believe that this facility complements initiatives already in place in the member states, for example in the uk – the british business bank. conservatives will always support initiatives that give hard working people, disadvantaged groups and other target groups, including female entrepreneurs, opportunities to become economically active. we support and welcome innovative ways that create real policy outcomes and represent a shift in how the eu budget is spent.
in writing. ‒ the epmf granted eur 124.6 million to people who would not normally have access to financing. its effectiveness in the case of disadvantaged groups is less clear, and that is why i welcome the european parliament report’s call for a better social impact reporting and targeting of vulnerable groups.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls to expand the scope and increase the funding and reach of this eu programme. it calls on the commission to view refugees and asylum seekers as a target group for this money and that this instrument contributes to the eu’s ‘added value’. while in principle we fully support small business and want to help micro-enterprises gain access to loans, we cannot support this measure which is not very well known and barely used by uk businesses. it effectively takes money off british taxpayers to hand out to businesses in poorer eu countries. the only people who should decide how we spend taxpayers’ money and create legislation to help smes are our own elected and accountable national government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report as it calls to expand the scope and increase the funding and reach of this eu programme. it calls on the commission to view refugees and asylum seekers as a target group for this money and that this instrument contributes to the eu’s ‘added value’. while in principle we fully support small business and want to help micro-enterprises gain access to loans, we cannot support this measure which is not very well known and barely used by uk businesses. it effectively takes money off british taxpayers to hand out to businesses in poorer eu countries. the only people who should decide how we spend taxpayers’ money and create legislation to help smes are our own elected and accountable national government, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i am against any extra funding for this facility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report because we need to have a more effective implementation of the european progress microfinance facility (epmf). the epmf has granted 124.6 million euros to people who would not normally have access to financing. its effectiveness in the case of disadvantaged group is less clear and that is why i welcome the european parliament's report's call for a better social impact reporting and targeting of vulnerable groups.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility (epmf) has granted eur 124.6 million to people who would not normally have access to financing. its effectiveness in the case of disadvantaged groups is less clear and that is why i welcome the european parliament’s report calling for better social impact reporting and targeting of vulnerable groups.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility (epmf) has granted eur 124.6 million to people who would not normally have access to financing for small scale business ventures. however, its success in targeting the most disadvantaged groups is less clear, which is why i backed this call for better social impact reporting. it is vital that the disadvantaged have access to this kind of finance and it needs to be targeted where it can do the most social good. financing has been a real issue for micro-businesses since the financial crash and it is vital that these businesses which can do so much for their local communities can flourish.
in writing. ‒ whilst i oppose the structure of the common fisheries policy, i suspect that the aspirations of this non-legislative resolution might make this awful policy slightly less bad in practice. i therefore chose to abstain rather than vote against.
in writing. – i abstained because, although ukip believes the entire common fisheries policy is systemically flawed, it would not be right to stand against calls and plans for minor, mitigating changes.
in writing. ‒ whilst i have some reservations about a lack of focus in parts of this report, i am happy to support the overall direction of this file. following the reform of the common fisheries policy, a review of the rules for technical measures is desperately needed to accommodate the two new elements of the cfp, the landing obligation and regionalisation. conservative meps are always calling for better implementation of eu policies, and almost nowhere is that more necessary than in the cfp. a number of the changes suggested in this report would be very welcome when the commission publishes its legislative proposals, particularly greater involvement of fishermen in decision making and better support for fishermen in terms of innovation, training and equipment that can help them minimise discards. better use of scientific evidence in managing fish stocks is also critical. there is still much work to be done in improving the implementation of the common fisheries policy, and this report is a welcome step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because, although we believe the entire common fisheries policy is systemically flawed, it would not be right to stand against calls and plans for minor, mitigating changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a new common fisheries policy. the 2013 reform of the cfp sought among other things to secure maximum sustainable yields (msy), using the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management. technical measures and multi-annual plans have become the principal conservation instruments to achieve such objectives. the revised technical measures regulation must ensure clarity and legal certainty. it should seek to improve the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socio-economic viability of the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the technical measures and multiannual plans are essential instruments to achieve the objectives of the 2013 reform to the common fisheries policy. i voted in favour of the new revised technical measures regulation because i believe that it ensures the clarity and legal certainty that is required of any revision in these matters. any reform to the cfp should seek to improve the conservation and the sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector. and i believe that the amendments that the s&d has introduced to this report ensure that these are effectively called for through this own-initiative report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recital in this report which rejects regionalisation being used as a means of renationalising controls over fisheries. fisheries management should be based on what works best, not on treaty technicalities. to date eu centralised control over fisheries management has been woeful.
in writing. – i abstained because, although we believe the entire common fisheries policy is systemically flawed, it would not be right to stand against calls and plans for minor, mitigating changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliament’s call ahead of the publication of a legislative proposal for the new technical measures regulation. it should seek to improve the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ future technical measures must be simple and clear so that they can be easily understood by fishermen. as far as possible, they should be adapted to the specific needs of each fishery and each region (regionalisation). however, provisions that are common to all sea basins or unlikely to be modified in the foreseeable future must be adopted by the eu co-legislators under the ordinary legislative procedure, i.e. codecision. indeed, full regionalisation would not be compatible with the cfp, under which the eu has sole competence, given that the resources are shared. finally, fishermen must be far more closely involved in the decision-making process, down to the very last detail of the technical measures. incentives must also be provided to ensure compliance therewith.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report as it sets out the european parliament’s red lines ahead of a new commission proposal on technical measures relating to the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) which sought among other things to secure maximum sustainable yields (msy), using the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management. technical measures and multiannual plans have become the principal conservation instruments to achieve such objectives.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because, although we believe the entire common fisheries policy is systemically flawed, it would not be right to stand against calls and plans for minor, mitigating changes.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because, although we believe the entire common fisheries policy is systemically flawed, it would not be right to stand against calls and plans for minor, mitigating changes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as i reject the structure of the cfp, this report only makes the cfp slightly less more objectionable.
in writing. ‒ the technical measures and multiannual plans are essential instruments to achieve the objectives of the 2013 reform to the common fisheries policy. i voted in favour of the new revised technical measures regulation because i believe that they ensure the clarity and legal certainty that is required of any revision in these matters. any reform to the cfp should seek to improve the conservation and the sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector. and i believe that the amendments that the s&d has introduced to this report ensure that these are effectively called for through this ini report.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote in favour of this report and to support its calls for fishermen to be more involved in decision-making and for there to be better use of scientific evidence in managing fish stocks.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, there are countries in the eu that seem unable to protect their borders. they need to ask for help, and at the moment some are failing to do so. the implications of this are being felt across the entire european union. those countries cannot continue to ignore offers of help while at the same time waving through refugees and migrants on to other countries. therefore, we certainly need a frontex agency capable of helping those countries in need. that agency should have resources pooled voluntarily from the member states so it can be deployed to assist. if a country is both failing to control its borders and refusing to ask for help, then we should offer them a choice: take the help or the rest of the eu will be within its rights to take action for the protection of the eu’s internal borders. my message to the commission is this. the eu has rules and too often we see countries flouting those rules with little consequence. the answer from the commission is to demand more sovereignty, but why do they not enforce the rules we already have in place? protecting external borders is something i support, but if a country cannot cope and will not ask for help, they should face the consequences. as alexander pope said, only fools rush in where angels fear to tread. so, before creating ever more compulsion and more sovereignty-sharing, we must have the courage to enforce what we already have in an effective and meaningful way. no one measure is going to solve the crisis. whilst i welcome proposals to address the challenges we face at the borders, this must not be allowed to become another piece of legislation – much like the emergency relocation mechanism – which is welcomed with fanfares but which, when implemented, is met by either intransigence or a simple failure to respond.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, there is no crisis too grave, there is no situation too terrible and there is no level of human suffering too great for the european union not to see another opportunity to extend its powers. in its usual convoluted and contradictory language which we heard earlier, the european union sets out its response to the next opportunity. so the commission wants to deploy personnel from a new border and coast guard agency without, as currently required, the consent of the state concerned. well i do not know how others might feel, but i do not like the idea of forces sent unbidden into a member state to defend a common european frontier. now what the european union commission obviously wants to do is a little bit more of what it is used to doing, which is to spend more taxpayers’ money, create another european union institution and expand and extend its power base. i do hope that european union member states’ citizens will see this for what it is, which is ceding border enforcement to an unanswerable, probably armed, but also unaccountable european union body. i hope, like me, they do not want that. do they really think it will help the situation? i do not believe it will. will it assist european union expansion? well of course it will. and will it resolve the causative european union factors behind all of this? no it will not. we will get brexit in the uk very soon and we will be able to make our point known and it will be: walk away from this.
mr president, i would remind colleagues that, in his opening statement, the vice-president mentioned the ‘hot spots’ and the reception conditions for refugees. last week the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) spent some four hours going through what is happening, and i note that the commission today announced infringement proceedings and action against member states who were not doing what they should have been doing. it was a very interesting debate which many people asked for. they asked for a european border and coast guard, and you today are at least embryonically delivering it. we have not seen the detail in writing, but if we do not have credibility on the ‘hot spots’ and reception centres – and commissioner, you have admitted this and said it clearly – then there is no holistic and comprehensive approach to this. so when colleagues call for an external border force, they must also call for a comprehensive view of this. frontex, to me, is not yet institutionally ready for this big task, but we still have to protect the external border. that means, together, we have to have solidarity, as my colleagues have said, but also credibility. at the heart of this is credibility. you are taking infringement proceedings. here in parliament, we have to understand that we too have a job. if we want to have schengen preserved and if we are to understand that 750 000 refugees have entered greece recently, and that we therefore have to have a refugee policy – and i would add the rule of law to the complaints mechanism, commissioner – then credibility must be at the heart of it. that means, colleagues, that the mff, which is eur 280 million, is not enough. let us now work together to understand that the external border must be protected under the rule of law, that we must protect schengen, but that we must also have the ‘hot spots’ and reception centres to have a credible refugee policy in order to look refugees in the eye and say to member states: yes, we have the plans today, but they will fall apart unless we exhibit solidarity, credibility, funding and some determination to make all of this work together.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i find myself in a proverbial mood today. let me begin by paying a tribute to giovanni la via, who led the european parliament delegation. there is a particular proverb i think is appropriate here: ‘between saying and doing, many a pair of shoes is worn out’. i’m sure that sounds better in italian, but nonetheless it perhaps sums up the challenges which we face. a tribute to laurent fabius is also required, and the proverb there would be: ‘the first step binds one in the second step’ – we have to recognise what that will mean for us. but my greatest praise i leave again to commissioner arias cañete, who has again been the centrepiece of the high ambition coalition. yesterday i described him as rather like a santa claus character bringing gifts back from paris; i will note that some of them are ticking, and i think that is perhaps the challenge which we here in this chamber face, because so many of our targets – the 2020 and 2030 targets – are predicated upon a 2°c limit, and the ambition now within this wider paris accord is greater than that. i think we need to recognise what that will mean for us all, both in this chamber and beyond. i am the uk conservative spokesperson on energy, so i speak only for the conservatives in this particular debate – i wish not to speak for the rest of my group. i think it is important to stress that we need to understand what this will mean for all that we are going to try and achieve, going forward. will we need again to revisit any of the eu’s climate and energy package? that must be answered. we also have to recognise what this might mean for the emissions trading scheme – perhaps not in this first phase 4 revision – but beyond that. we also need to know whether the 1.5°c target will appear as an operational or aspirational component of future legislation. finally, and perhaps most importantly, what impact assessment is being conducted? – so that we understand the full implications of what this will mean for all that we here in this chamber must commit to and must do in the future. but this is a huge step forward.
madam president, this paris agreement is a damp squib. it is little more than aspirational: there is no implementation or enforcement mechanism. that leaves the eu competitively disadvantaged as the only area with legally enforceable emissions obligations. we have talked about keeping global warming to 2°c or 2.7°c or 1.5°c. but the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) itself suggests a very wide range of values for climate sensitivity between 1.5°c and 4.5°c per doubling of co2. with this huge range of uncertainty, it is simply delusional to pretend that we can set meaningful targets to a tenth of a degree, but the real problems we face will be political not environmental. the economic damage and the sacrifices required from citizens to implement the paris agreement are simply not deliverable in a democratic context. governments that seek to implement this agreement will create an economic wasteland. they will be voted out of office. remember colleagues, when it happens to you, you heard it here first.
madam president, we have been told for the last several years that it is highly unlikely, if not impossible, to meet the target of 2°c of warming. now that we have agreed a limit of well below 2°c of warming, we are being told that we have to take further action rapidly to change our targets and our action plans to 2030 to reflect this, because we now have a global deal. well, do we? is it realistic to expect us all to change our behaviours? what are we even doing here in strasbourg this week? is this going to be the last time we are all required to travel here? the extra climate effect of the strasbourg circus – no, we are not going to change that. that is not going to change; we will carry on as we were. so it is fine words. the wording of the agreement is illuminating, with phrases such as ‘as soon as possible’. there is no deadline year beyond 2050. what i was looking for was certainty – certainty to encourage investment. i would rather have certainty at lower levels of ambition than fine words that do not create the right conditions for business and governments to work together without coercion.
mr president, whenever i hear the words ‘historic agreement’, my sceptical streak kicks in. the aim is to keep warming below 2°c at a time when there has been no warming since 1997 and when we know that 1 000 years ago the earth was warmer than it is today. current records are all too brief. even 250 years is insufficient time for a meaningful assessment of long-term climate patterns, and so-called models are only as good as the data in the programming. the climate change industry has become a powerful, vested interest, so what will this really mean in swindon, exeter and penzance? the main problem is the demonisation of coal, which has been the provider of cheap, affordable electricity for many years. cop21 delegates state a need for cheap, affordable electricity, but this agreement will have the opposite effect. already, millions in the uk live in fuel poverty, having to choose between heating and eating. approximately 20% of the thousands of excess winter deaths per year are directly attributable to cold homes. cop 21 is bad for them, bad for the uk, and bad for europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i do not dispute there has been climate change: there has been for thousands of years. a thousand years ago we had the medieval warm period; before that we had the roman warm period; before that we had the late egyptian warm period, and before that the minoan warm period. all these actually coincide with the sun’s activity. we have seen that cooling has actually started to happen since the solar cycle 24 decreased, and the sun is very inactive at the moment. in fact, some solar scientists forecast that we are actually heading for another maunder minimum.
mr president, we have had the medieval warming period; we have had the egyptian warming period; we now have the ukip warming period, with the asinine nonsense that we hear from the other side of the chamber. because we know that this is the greatest threat that the planet faces – and huge credit is due to the commissioner and to the presidency for the work they have done. there is a lot i could say about what should be in the deal and is not. shipping and aviation have been mentioned; we talked about the vague targets that are in place; and, of course, the fact that national legislators can now strike elements of this down. but it is really important, at a time when people are searching for ways in which the european institutions can deliver, that we have this real example of what working together can achieve – because it is not easy. we know that working together and getting agreement among 28 countries is difficult. but this agreement with 196 parties shows that it can be done, and it shows the power of working together. so you can congratulate yourselves, commissioner: you have done well. and yes, now the hard work begins!
mr president, well done to the commission; well done to the commissioner; well done to the council; it is a good deal. we now have a plan and we now need to deliver that plan. if we do not deliver the plan, then paris will not be remembered. i do have a worry though, and it is about my own government. we seem to be going backwards in the united kingdom. we are not doing renewables like we were going to do them; we are not doing carbon capture and storage like we were going to do, and we are now going to expand our airports. this is going backwards and i hope the commissioner, next time he sees the relevant people from the united kingdom, will point this out and use his leadership to say that there is now a gap appearing between the rhetoric of the british government on one hand in paris, which was fine, and the reality on the ground in the united kingdom, which is not living up to that fine rhetoric. and the phrase that he could use next time he sees amber rudd is to say to her: fine words butter no parsnips.
rapporteur.– mr president, aggressive tax avoidance and evasion cost the european union eur 1 trillion a year. that is a huge loss for member states, but it is an even bigger loss for the people who live in the member states. their public services have, in many cases, been cut to the bone while the taxes they pay have been hiked. it is also hugely unfair for those small and medium—sized businesses that pay their fair share of tax. how can they compete against giant multinationals which can get their tax bills down to almost nothing? there is a wider impact too – less tangible, but no less important. scandals like luxleaks have severely undermined the public’s trust, not just in the luxembourg government but in tax administrations and governments across europe. i find it impossible to explain to my constituents why giant companies like facebook can get away with paying less in corporate tax, in a country like the uk, than the average citizen does per year in income tax. the time for hand—wringing is well and truly over. now we need to take the hard decisions necessary to sort out the corporate tax system. both the commission and member states will have to take action which, in the short term, will almost certainly be challenged by vested interests but, by stopping the vicious cycle of beggar—thy—neighbour policies, they can make their economies more efficient and help rebuild public trust in both tax authorities and governments. as with the ferreira—theurer report, this report shows that there is a strong consensus in the house for real hard—hitting action to be taken against tax dodging. that consensus is quite remarkable. it extends across every single political group in this parliament. individual meps from across this house have submitted amendments that have strengthened the text as, of course, have the shadow rapporteurs whose contribution has been essential. above all, i want warmly to thank my co—rapporteur, luděk niedermayer, for all his incredible hard work and that of his team. despite the inevitable differences between us, we have managed to create a text that is simultaneously comprehensive, practical and radical. as rapporteurs, we were given the brief of improving transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax. to achieve this, we drew on the work of the special committee and our own consultations with a variety of stakeholders, experts and academics. four key measures stand out from our recommendations on transparency. first, all companies that operate across borders should report where they make their profits and where they pay their taxes. a ‘fair taxpayer’ label should be awarded to companies which engage in good tax practice. eu countries should tell each other when they introduce a new, potentially harmful, tax measure, and there must be much better protection for whistleblowers who report tax dodging. when it comes to coordination, businesses underlined to us time and time again the need for the eu to implement a full common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). this would not set common tax rates, but would clean up the process of defining taxable assets and activities and greatly simplify tax administration. finally, when it comes to convergence we need clearer guidelines on tax—related state aid and a common, objective definition of tax havens. we then need to apply the definition to prevent those companies that use tax havens benefiting from eu funds. the constituency of the uk prime minister, for example, that of witney in his hometown, includes 25 properties registered to tax havens and huge swathes of countryside owned in tax havens, which benefit from common agricultural policy funds. we have to end this farce. to conclude, i hope that, throughout the debate to come and the vote that will follow it, we will see a continuation of our consensus so far, as a parliament, to take timely, targeted and practical measures to end tax dodging.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, across our continent we see the state shrinking and being unable to fulfil its essential duties. part of the reason for this is the failure of corporations to pay adequate tax to fund the very services that they use. i congratulate the rapporteurs on this file for making concrete recommendations on public country-by-country reporting, tax havens and sanctions against eu companies using them. today we are challenging the commission to introduce these into law across the european union to demonstrate that they will resist the power of corporate lobbying and act for the people of europe. what has been less encouraging is the way all groups, apart from the greens, have had members who have put national interest above our continent’s interest. this is deeply short-sighted, since the corporations are deliberately using these variable policies on tax and the self-interest of member states to push us all into a race to the bottom that only they can win. we are supposed to be working together for fair taxation, not dividing along national lines. competition should be in innovation and between companies, not between member states competing to attract companies. finally, i would urge colleagues to support our amendment calling for a fund to protect whistle-blowers, using money clawed back from illegal sweetheart deals. the whistle-blowers have made our work possible and we should not allow them to be treated as criminals.
mr president, socialism is the philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance and the gospel of envy; its inherent virtue is the equal sharing of misery. so said winston churchill. well, if he was in this place today, he would see that once again. the socialists are trying to impose the equal sharing of misery across all of europe by imposing the idea that we should have a consolidated harmonised corporate tax policy across europe. the belief is that tax harmonisation is tax justice. if we harmonise our taxes, things will get better. just as they said that if we harmonised the euro, the economy would get better; if we harmonised the economy in europe, things would get better. only look at greece. we said if we harmonised our borders, things would get better. the only thing that is harmonised in this place is the inherent inequality of thinking of people who think harmonisation will actually work.
rapporteur.– mr president, i am sorry to have again been scheduled as the first speaker. i am very much looking forward to what my co-rapporteur has to say as well, and i am grateful to colleagues for their comments. it is a shame that mr woolfe, mr carthy and ms tomašić have left, because the first thing i wanted to do was to correct the misconception that they stated in this chamber. this report in no place calls for tax harmonisation or for a harmonised tax rate across europe. it does not state that anywhere. yet time and time again, that argument has been wheeled out to block action against tax dodging. how on earth is it fair that some huge companies’ tax advisers are able to play off definitional ambiguities about what is taxable in different countries? that is not about competition. in fact it is barely compatible, i would say, with the single market. it certainly is not fair and it is harming small businesses right across europe. so please, let us stop using that excuse to block action on tax dodging. if the report is approved tomorrow, as you all know the commission will have a year to implement its recommendations or to explain why it cannot implement those recommendations. i very much welcome what we heard today coming from the commission. but as others have stated, much of the battle here will be with member states. all of them say they want to do something against tax dodging, but when it comes to the detail they have been less forthcoming. i hope that colleagues will continue to support action in this area. we do not have the luxury of years and years to procrastinate and hope for the best on this issue. we need the billions of euros that are being lost because of tax dodging now for revenues for member states. we need a level playing field now for our small businesses, and we need a level playing field now for our constituents, many of whose tax bills have increased, while those for some large multinationals have been reduced to almost zero. we have got to rise to this policy challenge now.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the ecr supports strong eu relations with china as one of the un security council ‘permanent five’ and a strategic and global actor. recently president xi visited the uk on a state visit, and he was accorded the highest honours as a mark of how important the bilateral relationship is. nevertheless, i have been a long-standing critic of the lack of human rights in china. i criticised the bullying of peaceful democratic taiwan through its exclusion from all international organisations. i criticised the repression of peaceful tibetan culture, the persecution of falun gong practitioners and other religious minorities, and the widespread censorship of the media, including google, as well as military expansion in the china seas. i also condemned the widespread use of the death sentence for lesser crimes such as economic subversion and pimping, believe it or not. we cannot ignore the importance of the people’s republic of china but must never lose sight of the fact that it is a one-party communist dictatorship. the eu has much more in common with democratic india, so more needs to be done to enhance our partnership with it. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we have had this discussion before. i have a right to speak at a rate i choose to do so to make my points in a language that 90% of the parliament understands. i am sorry if i go too fast ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr tannock is a political opponent of mine, not only from a different political party but from a different political group, but i have to come to his defence. he was cut off at exactly one minute. i think you have a duty to be impartial to members of all political groups and political parties, and certainly from where i am sitting, with respect, that was not what i observed.
mr president, i am pleased to note that the situation in hong kong has rightly been highlighted in this report. this former british colony was, of course, guaranteed political independence under the ‘one state, two systems’ agreement following the transition of british sovereignty to china in 1997. hong kong is a good example of a successful, and mostly democratic, asian territory holding elections and continuing to use a system based on english common law. however, around a year ago, china attempted to interfere in the election of the hong kong chief executive, proposing that only candidates from a pre-selected list were eligible to stand. i pay tribute to the legislative council of hong kong who rejected these proposals in june, but i remain concerned by further possible chinese interventions in hong kong’s democratic affairs. hong kong’s ability, as guaranteed by the sino-british joint declaration, to continue to operate as a free and democratic territory must be maintained. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you for the question, mr bütikofer. quite frankly, we look to the future and we do not look to the past. i think you are giving an insular response in looking to the past and the lessons of the past. quite frankly, your approach to the european union, i believe, is a 20th century answer to a 19th century problem. i actually look and learn from the lessons of the past and i think it is important to take this opportunity, as i have done in this debate, to highlight that point of view.
mr president, i thank my colleague mr belder for his report. with power comes responsibility, and china appears to be more interested in the first whilst avoiding the second. a responsible global power cannot engage in distortive currency manipulation, bully its neighbours in the south china sea and have a human rights record that leaves much to be desired. beijing cannot push for recognition as a market economy while turning a blind eye to deliberately under-priced steel exports. steel dumping has had a devastating impact on what was the economic engine of my region, yorkshire and the humber. our relationship with china should be a two-way street and i ask my colleagues to help call it to account when so many jobs are being unfairly jeopardised.
mr president, with the brics development bank and the aiib, beijing is driving the reshaping of global governance. yet we do not have a strong common approach to promoting the european strategic interest. there is none for the south china sea, where tensions threaten to undermine security and destabilise key trade routes; none for the chinese ‘one belt, one road’ plan, which offers important grounds for cooperation on investment. meanwhile, china is focusing negotiations with central and eastern european countries on the 16 + 1 framework, which risks weakening the interests of the eu member states that are not involved. minister schmit, how are we ensuring that our neighbourhood policy is strengthened rather than undermined by chinese investment initiatives in this region? the recent impact of china’s black monday on the stock market and the impact on our industry of chinese dumping, not least in the uk steel sector, show that its financial economic policies should also be put on our radar.
madam president, my thanks to the rapporteur and the shadows. i wanted to raise the subject of steel dumping by china onto the eu market. with an estimated 94% of dumped steel landing in the uk, it is no surprise that there is currently a crisis in the uk steel industry. in scotland, we are witnessing over 200 job losses in cambuslang and in motherwell. this has not been helped by the fact that steel contracts to build the new forth crossing were given by the snp government in edinburgh not to scottish steel manufacturers, but to china. both the uk government and the snp government in edinburgh have to take responsibility for the state of our local steel sector, but what action can be taken by the council and commission to secure not just the future of uk and scottish steel, but also the future of the eu steel industry?
madam president, it is quite ironic, is it not, that the world humanitarian summit is hosted in turkey, of all places. the human rights watch website highlights many ways in which turkey has abused human rights, including restricting internet access, a defective justice system and a consistent clamping down on freedom of expression. what is even more ironic is that the eu has pushed forward turkey’s accession process, despite human rights abuses. for an institution that prides itself on liberal values, this certainly sends the wrong message. turkey is already a nato member, but its posturing towards russia highlights the danger, to the uk and other european states, of close integration with this hostile and belligerent government. we are naïve if we think trade and membership of this parliament can change a culture that has been developed over many centuries. we should send a clear signal to the turkish people that they need to elect a progressive government and implement wholesale reform of their legal structures, which will protect minorities and fundamental rights, before accession is even talked about.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, i wish to thank the commissioner, for her statement. i very much like what she said about this being fair for everybody and enforced on the ground. so often we see directives that are unenforceable, so it is very important that we take care to have things that are enforceable and are fair. i think social security coordination is important. however, i frankly cannot see why one would want to be opening up the posting of workers directive while we still do not have the enforcement directive in place. this seems very premature and i do not understand why one would want to do it. on the question of equal pay for equal work, this is a very noble objective and one we can support, but one has to look at the practicalities. i would urge you to look at the cases in britain where thousands of cases are stuck in the courts because equal work cannot be defined.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, like others, i also want to add my regret that we are not actually debating the published package tonight. we should realise that there are 27 countries that were extremely interested in this, and that they should not have to hang around waiting for just one. a lot is said in this parliament – and indeed by the commission – about the importance of labour mobility, about its positive role in the eu economy and for individuals themselves, providing new experiences and the opportunity to develop talents. they can use their talents where, as we have just been reminded by our colleague in spain, there is no opportunity in their own countries. we also have the millions of cross-border workers on a daily basis and people filling vacancies in the labour markets at all skill levels. i want to stress that: it is at all skill levels. but this really needs to work for those individuals, and it is important that they can access their entitlements. i really hope that this package will also look at the gaps in systems and between systems, where people are not catered for, and we can see that through the committee on petitions, through cases at solvit. i would like us to look at how we really match skills rather than seeing people employed well below their skill levels. i also want to remind people that it is not only workers who move. so the extension of the scope of the 2004 regulation was important, and i hope we are not touching that.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, the eu loves talking about labour mobility, but what my people in the region of yorkshire and north lincolnshire want is real jobs. instead, the eu has given them... (the speaker was unwell and was unable to complete her speech)
madam president, can i first congratulate the commissioner on not insulting us by even pretending that this package has been delayed for any reason other than not to muddy the waters of the glorious deal that we are all expecting david cameron to do in february. at least we know where we are, and it is nice not to be patronised. but, perhaps i could also suggest to her that if this deal had been done, if this package had been finalised a year ago, then rather than the whole of europe being in angst-ridden negotiations with david cameron about in-work benefits, we could have been a year into a situation in which we were paying the same rate for the same job in the same place and providing a living wage and decent conditions for european workers. we would not have to argue about in-work benefits if we had the fair rate for the job in the same place, and jobs.
in writing.– the eu loves talking about labour mobility, but what people in my region of yorkshire and north lincolnshire really want is jobs. instead, the eu has given them legislation which demands all job vacancies are advertised across the european union. in the summer it was calculated the eures programme has seen only 25 jobs go to british workers compared to the 34.7 per cent of jobs advertised which are based in britain. after much toing-and-froing between the european parliament and the council, it was decided that all jobcentre plus vacancies will have to be advertised across the 27 other countries in the eu as well as in britain. the legislation has also been expanded to include apprenticeships and traineeships which would make it harder for young people to find work in the uk. this can only be described as a catastrophic failure for the british government and what i find concerning is that they seemed to push for a solution which they could spin rather than one which would allow british jobs for british workers. i fear it is the unemployed in this country who will now find it even harder to get a job.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, last week i hosted an event in parliament where callum russell came to talk about gap year opportunities for young people with disabilities. callum is studying at the college of europe in bruges. he is a very articulate and determined young man. he is british and he is blind. but disability cannot be allowed to define a person. disability must not be a barrier to playing a full role in society. callum pointed out that the websites of the european union institutions are completely inaccessible. this is not acceptable. let us, for goodness sake, get our own house in order. we have a saying in the uk: people who live in glass houses should not throw stones. so let us make sure that our own institutions’ websites are properly accessible before we go further.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, after meeting with disability action in derry, it is clear that an accessibility act is essential, especially after the un initiated a private inquiry into investigating violations of disabled people’s human rights as a result of british welfare cuts. indeed, spending cuts in member states have hurt people with disabilities the most. what must it be like for the 80 million disabled people who need access to computers, atms, telecommunications, banking and transport – services that we all take for granted? how many of us meps used those services to try to get here to strasbourg? i certainly used them all. an accessibility act would put obligations on member states to take the necessary measures to include legislation to ensure accessibility, and it would support the un convention of the rights of persons with a disability – a convention that ireland has yet to ratify. so whilst the proposed directive is welcome, i think it is long-overdue, but at least it is a step in the right direction.
madam president, i welcome the proposal for a european accessibility act, although, as many have said, it has taken a long time to get here. ensuring that the 80 million european citizens who currently live with a disability have access to products and services in our single market is critically important in creating a more equal and fairer society. i want to particularly welcome the action point on ict and operating systems. as the commissioner highlighted, the accessibility of public websites is a key issue; a colleague also mentioned our own websites, and this is maybe a point we can take away with us. many of us who have been working in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have had a good look at our own websites to make sure that they are accessible, and we all can do the same. these proposals to ensure that there is non-discrimination in the digital single market as well are important for all eu citizens. it is interesting that today in the un they are considering the 10-year review of implementation of the outcomes of the world summit on the information society. point 12 of their outcome document highlights specific ict challenges faced by persons with disabilities; this is interesting. we are sitting here in the european parliament – although it is late – while in the un they are also discussing these issues. on the subject of the marrakesh treaty, which i continue to raise on the floor of this house, i would call on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to implement this treaty as soon as possible. the accessibility act mentions the issue of e-books, but with fewer than 5% of books published in accessible formats for blind and partially-sighted readers – and in poorer countries there are as little as 1% – we cannot see the accessibility act and the marrakesh treaty as separate. they are very much interlinked. i look forward to working with the commissioner and colleagues to ensure the implementation of the accessibility act, and also, when we come to it, on the marrakesh treaty too.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, for every single one of this week’s summit items there is no simple answer, no simple soundbite, no one policy, no one council conclusion to solve all the crises facing europe. and far too many people offer simplistic responses: some speak of more europe; a single eu intelligence agency; a single european army leading to a single european government. others speak of no europe: closing our borders completely; no entry; no migration, no cooperation. and sometimes the only voices that appear to be heard are those of the extremes. and our politics is in danger of becoming more polarised at a time when our world becomes more complex. but these crises, they transcend the 140 characters of a tweet – do not tweet that, by the way. the migration and refugee crisis has no simple answers. there is no silver bullet. it must be tackled at source, and we must work our way to a political solution in syria, however slowly and however frustrating that is. not everyone who is coming here is necessarily fleeing war, but understandably seeking a better life. who can blame them? but we simply cannot offer everyone a home, regardless of their personal circumstances. we must have clear rules in place to grant asylum to those genuinely fleeing persecution, and to return economic migrants to apply through existing immigration channels. instead, we see one large member state sending out a message that everyone is welcome – regardless of their personal circumstances or their reason for travelling – and then berating other member states when they re-erect borders. we see other member states not living up to their responsibilities to detain and process people. when they are unable to cope, they do not ask for help. so instead of all this we see kneejerk policies in the heat of a crisis, like a relocation scheme based on a simple idea but never really rooted in reality. only 160 people have been helped through it to date. when reality bites, the rhetoric changes. so when schengen states talk of re-erecting borders, we finally focus on strengthening the eu’s external borders with talk about a european border guard. yes, we agree; enhancing frontex and cooperating to help frontex can help, but we need to be very careful about how what we agree now will work, not just for the next few months, but for the years ahead. and instead of compulsion over member states, we need more cooperation between member states, not using a crisis to undermine sovereignty. the same goes for the terrorism crisis we now face. we must react calmly and rationally with policies to address the threat. and yes, it is good to see some of our member states are going after da’esh in the middle east, but we now need to build trust between member states’ intelligence agencies to share data, not compel them. and we must also tackle the wider issues that lead young people to be recruited by da’esh. the identity crisis that leaves young people vulnerable to the tactics of da’esh will only be made worse if we seek to demonise or ostracise our muslim communities in our countries. now turning to the uk’s request that you reform, you may be surprised to hear that i have a few words to say about this. we all know that the majority of these requests could be accommodated relatively easily. there is some work to do to accommodate both the uk’s requests and to pursue further european reform. as a british conservative, i am proud that it is a british prime minister who will deliver a referendum for the british people… (interjection from the floor‘rubbish, it was ukip!’) dream on! ... as a british mep, i will help where i can with a renegotiation process and explain to colleagues here and to my voters, who will have the final say. but as leader of the ecr group, i hope this process will act as a catalyst for eu-wide reforms. so looking at the summit agenda, there are some tough issues that need some proper thinking and planning. 2014 was a year of a new european parliament, a new commission and a new council president. but 2015 has been a year of kneejerk reactions. 2016 needs to be the year for laying the groundwork for long-term solutions based on cooperation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – well, good morning and merry christmas, mr kamal. it is nice to be close to you, as i am normally up in the gods up there. i heard a lot about what you do not want, so i am going to try to pin you down on something you do want. i am not going to ask you about the referendum, because you have side-stepped that at least a dozen times. so what i wonder is, do you still hold with your party’s – and your leader’s – long-term aim to give full eu membership to turkey? if that is the case, when would you like to see that happen?
blue-card answer. – actually, we all need to be completely honest with turkey, and i have said this a number of times. let us be honest: turkey will never join the eu. i am sorry, but there are too many reasons why turkey will not join: some of them are based on pure prejudice about their faith and about turks; some on the fact that people believe turkey is not in europe; and some on the fact that people want a common foreign security policy and do not want borders with iran, syria and iraq. others worry – given the population of turkey – about the number of meps they would have and about voting strength in the council. put all those reasons together, and we have got to stop being dishonest with turkey. it is time for all of us to be honest and say that they will never be members of the eu.
blue-card question.– mr verhofstadt, once you have stopped waving your arms around all over the place doing an excellent impersonation of a sky-diving octopus, won’t you perhaps stop to consider the use of your words ‘eu projects’. do you not understand, sir, that this is not some classroom project, but actually the lives and aspirations of 500 million people from 28 very different countries? do you not understand, mr verhofstadt, that you are playing games without frontiers? c’est jeux sans frontières!
blue-card question.– it seems to me that you fear mr verhofstadt’s pan-european state police as much as i do. it seems to be set up to cover up the eu’s disastrous immigration policy. would you agree with me on that, madam?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, another european summit and yet another power grab ... it is funny, every single time a european union policy fails, and that is pretty often, the demand is for more centralisation and ‘more europe’. and by any measure, the eu’s common asylum policy – albeit given rocket boosters by chancellor merkel – has been a dramatic failure. not only will millions continue to come, few of whom, of course, would qualify as genuine refugees, but it has become an open invitation to terrorism. so our solution is that the eu border agency and the eu maritime services should be given powers and the ability to declare force majeure over the member states! incredibly, the british prime minister, david cameron, is supporting this. yet that is the same prime minister who is going to have a meeting with you tomorrow night to talk about our so-called renegotiation. i hope he fares better than last time. the last time he attempted this he got to speak at one o’clock in the morning, spoke for a total of seven minutes, in the middle of which the french president, monsieur hollande, got up and went out for a pee. so i hope they take him a bit more seriously this time, though i sense that nobody in this room is exactly quaking in their boots. after all, he has asked for almost nothing, and he is unlikely to even get that. however, i am sure we will be treated to the usual theatricals. a grave-faced prime minister will come back to britain to say how tough the negotiations have been but that he will not give in, and there will be hints that, perhaps, the prime minister will even support brexit if he does not get his way. i think we should take that about as seriously as when he banged the table and said he would not pay the gbp 1.75 billion surcharge 18 months ago, and then meekly obliged. in february the charade will come back: there will be a european summit and, on something minor and inconsequential, there will be a deal, and a referendum will happen in june 2016. opposition to this project is growing right across the continent: 15% of the hungarian population have now signed a petition against migrant quotas. we saw an extraordinary advance by the french national front in the elections in france last week, but so far nobody has reached the tipping point. well, the british referendum may be that moment, and the momentum is on our side. it is not just about getting back national democracy: it is about getting back national self-confidence. for those of us who believe in nation-state democracy, 2016 is a very bright dawn indeed. (applause from certain quarters) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr lucke, as you may or may not understand, we have a very odd electoral system in the united kingdom. i would remind you, in the european elections, ukip won those elections. right across the continent we are seeing, in the centre, the left and the right, genuine opposition to the european project growing. the disappointment, mr lucke, is that people like you in germany, who have been critical of so many aspects of the union, of so much about the euro, appear not to have the courage to logically follow through your own convictions and to conclude that this project is the wrong project. what we want is a europe of democratic nation-states, trading together, being friends together, but without the flag, without the anthem, without the commission and without the european parliament. (applause from the efdd group)
madam president, the council of ministers meeting this week is viewed with a great deal of interest in the united kingdom, and many view it as a serious test of whether these institutions are capable of change and reform. a few weeks ago david cameron published his agenda for negotiation. it is an agenda without ambition and very far removed from his stated aims for renegotiation in his bloomberg speech of 2013. back then he promised opt-outs from eu legislation, control over migration, curbs on the european courts and, fundamentally, he demanded treaty change. today he has limited himself to so-called changes that merely reflect the status quo and a vague demand for greater competitiveness within the single market. his proposals around benefit uptake have met with fierce resistance. so is this union up for negotiation? are the european institutions capable of change? or as many of my constituents believe, are we simply left to pay the bill while having our concerns ignored? it is a stern test for david cameron. it is an even bigger test for brussels, and the scant reference to this in both the commission and council contributions this morning does not bode well. many in the uk have already decided, with the polls showing growing numbers opting for brexit. members, the ball is in your court. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– if i may say so, the very question mirrors the attitude of the institutions towards the british renegotiation issue. it is a matter of dilution, dilution, dilution, until you give nothing. that has the effect in the united kingdom of growing the numbers for brexit: you can choose which way it will go.
madam president, at a date yet to be announced my constituents in wales will be faced with a choice that will affect us for generations to come: voting on whether or not to remain in the european union. for my party, plaid cymru, and for many in wales – like local authorities, businesses and voluntary organisations – eu membership is vital in building our economy and our communities. wales has benefited from eu solidarity through the structural funds and from legislation protecting workers, the environment, our rural areas and much more. i know that wales has a great deal to contribute to making the eu more effective and improving europe for all our peoples. we want to engage far more directly, positively and proactively. we want to work together in the interests of peace, social justice and sustainability. there may be no decision taken this week in relation to the uk, but i want to send a strong message that we will be making a very clear and positive case for remaining in the eu in wales’s interest and europe’s interests. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– ms evans, considering that your party, the welsh nationalists, are doing so badly in the polls in wales and that ukip are doing so well – and it looks as if they are going to get a lot of representation in wales – would you not say that the welsh people agree more with ukip than with you?
blue-card answer.– what we need, and what we are leading, in wales is a very factual and very honest debate on where the interests of the people of wales lie. that has been shown clearly time and time again to be in the eu as a small successful nation with a strong economy. i have yet to hear ukip put forward any policies that will benefit people in wales.
mr president, tomorrow european leaders will discuss the single market, migration and brexit. british voters are split 50:50. the single market has made it easier to trade in 28 countries with 500 million consumers and i would like to see it more dynamic, but unless substantial changes are made, britain will vote to leave. the uk will not join the euro, it cannot be part of the ever closer union or the social pillar, and it is vital that countries outside the eurozone cannot be discriminated against by a cartel of those within. this is a key point in the british negotiation. on migration, the region i represent has experienced more eu migration than any other part of the uk. free movement is a cherished right, but unlimited access to healthcare welfare has proved unsustainable and builds resentment. in two years’ time britain may well have voted to leave. i urge leaders to please listen carefully to our requests and try to make progress.
mr president, i have chosen to speak about the very real risk that my country may soon leave this union. david cameron wants us to believe his renegotiation vision is the only show in town when it comes to eu reform. his pro—austerity, regulation—light, anti—migration rhetoric is more nightmare than vision and it appears he now wants to export and inflict this nightmare on the rest of europe. but it is clear that his fake negotiation is unravelling. his pledge to reduce red tape sees him doing his bit for the corporations eager to eliminate anything that stands in the way of their profits. his support for dodgy trade deals, like ttip, shows that he is happy to see a race to the bottom on workers’ rights, environmental protection and health standards. but many in the uk want to be part of a genuinely reformed europe with a stronger, more effective european parliament with greater decision-making powers and scrutiny over the commission and council. greens say ‘yes’ to the eu, ‘yes’ to real reform and ‘yes’ to upholding the rights of all citizens, which mr cameron seems so keen to bargain away.
mr president, ahead of the council meeting i am going to read a letter that i have written to mr tusk on behalf of the uk: ‘dear mr tusk, as your special relationship with mr cameron clearly isn’t working and his so—called negotiations with you have collapsed like a pack of cards, i thought it might be helpful to outline what the british people actually want from the eu. trade: as we are the second largest economy in the union, we must be able to negotiate our own free- trade agreements, because one commissioner for 28 states does not fit all. agriculture: a common agricultural policy costs us more to feed our own people and keeps developing countries, like africa, in poverty. fisheries: we want to take back control of our own territorial waters, restore our fishing fleets and protect our own fishing stocks. justice: we do not want, and accept, a separate court in luxembourg overruling the uk judiciary and directly elected members of parliament. migration control: well, you know what the british people want here. we must have control over who comes to britain and that is non-negotiable. you cannot deliver on this, so therefore we will brexit’.
mr president, it will not surprise anyone that i have long been a critic of david cameron’s reckless approach to the eu. i still find it hard to believe that britain, as a proud nation respected for its skills in diplomacy and influence throughout the world, finds itself in a situation where its position as a global leader could be under threat. but there are signs that the prime minister may be starting to understand that his strategy of taking our country to the brink of exit may not be a wise one. i desperately hope that sanity prevails and that a sensible deal will be reached, but regardless of what happens in the negotiations, britain is better off in the eu and the eu is better off with britain as a member. so i am proud that the labour party will be campaigning hard to make sure that britain remains in the eu. labour will fight to safeguard jobs. labour will fight for security. labour will fight to protect working rights for british people, british families and british workers. labour will fight to keep britain’s rightful place at the heart of the eu. (applause)
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. however, in the interests of democracy i should confirm for the benefit of my constituents that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ following a hearing in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on 17 november 2015 with andrea enria, the incumbent chairperson of the european banking authority, at which he made an opening statement and then responded to questions from the members of the committee, i decided to give my support the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the eba.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reappointment of the chairperson of the european banking authority. in 2011, andrea enria was selected to be the chairperson of the european banking authority for five years. i voted in favour of extending enria’s mandate for another five years. prior to this decision, the parliament invited enria to the committee on economic affairs in november of this year, where enria answered many questions in a satisfactory manner
in writing. ‒ secret ballot! why oh why do the eu fear transparency? we voted against!
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve the proposal for the extension of the term of office of andrea enria as chairperson of the eba by another five-year term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the econ committee decision to extend the term of office of andrea enria as chairperson of the eba by another five-year term.
in writing. ‒ in principle i object to the authority of the eu regulators and so cannot support the extension of the term of office. so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ after the hearing with andrea enria, the incumbent chairperson of the eba, at the committee of economic and monetary affairs, i am confident in his competence and i wish him well in his future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to extend the term of office of andrea enria, the incumbent chairperson of the european banking authority, following his statement and replies to questions posed by fellow meps in the hearing in the european parliament committee on economic and monetary affairs in november.
in writing. ‒ the chairman of the eba has had an unprecedented amount of work to do during his first mandate due to the many level 2 measures that the eba has drafted. given this work is still on-going and at a crucial stage, i am happy to approve the current chairman for a second mandate in order to ensure continuity to the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. however, in the interests of democracy i should confirm for the benefit of my constituents that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ given the satisfactory results of the hearing on 17 november 2015 in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with gabriel bernardino, i decided to give my support to the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reappointment of the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. in 2011, gabriel bernardino was selected to be the chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for five years. i voted in favour of extending his mandate for another five years. prior to the vote parliament invited bernardino to the committee on economic affairs in november where no major issues came up.
in writing. ‒ secret ballot! why oh why do the eu fear transparency? we voted against!
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve the proposal for the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernardino as chairperson of the eiopa by another five-year term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the econ committee’s support for the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernardino as chairperson of the eiopa by another five-year term.
in writing. ‒ in principle i object to the authority of the eu regulators and so cannot support the extension of the term of office. so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have voted on the extension of the term of office of gabriel bernandino in his capacity of chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the hearing in the economic and monetary affairs committee last month, combined with his work so far, has proven to me that he is competent in his position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to extend the term of office of gabriel bernardino, the incumbent chairperson of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), following his statement and replies to questions posed by fellow meps in the hearing in the european parliament committee on economic and monetary affairs in november.
in writing. ‒ the chairman of the eiopa has had an unprecedented amount of work to do during his first mandate due to the many level 2 measures that the eiopa has drafted. given this work is still on-going and at a crucial stage, i am happy to approve the current chairman for a second mandate in order to ensure continuity to the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ this vote was taken by secret ballot. however, in the interests of democracy i should confirm for the benefit of my constituents that i voted against.
in writing. ‒ given the satisfactory results of the hearing organised on 17 november 2015 in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with steven maijoor, incumbent chairperson at the european securities and markets authority, i decided to give my support to the extension of the term of office of the chairperson of esma.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reappointment of the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority. in 2011, steven maijoor was selected to be chairperson of the european securities and markets authority for five years. following a suggestion by the board of supervisors of the esma, the committee on economic affairs invited maijoor to the european parliament in order to discuss a five-year extension of his mandate. i approved this extension.
in writing. ‒ secret ballot! why oh why do the eu fear transparency? we voted against!
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve the proposal for the extension of the term of office of steven maijoor as chairperson of the esma by another five-year term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which ratifies the econ committee’s support the extension of the term of office of steven maijoor as chairperson of the esma by another five-year term.
in writing. ‒ in principle i object to the authority of the eu regulators and so cannot support the extension of the term of office. so i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ steven maijoor made a good opening statement at the econ committee hearing and responded well to the questions from the members. as econ approved the extension of the term in office of mr. maijoor in his capacity of the chairperson of the european securities and markets authority earlier this month, this has come to plenary to be voted on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to extend the term of office of steven maijoor, the incumbent chairperson of the european securities and markets authority (esma), following his statement and replies to questions posed by fellow meps in the hearing in the european parliament committee on economic and monetary affairs in november.
in writing. ‒ the chairman of the esma has had an unprecedented amount of work to do during his first mandate due to the many level 2 measures that the esma has drafted. given this work is still on-going and at a crucial stage, i am happy to approve the current chairman for a second mandate in order to ensure continuity to the legislative process.
in writing. – ukip does not oppose the concept of sharing intelligence with neighbouring countries. however we have concerns that europol is an organisation that should not be the agency in charge. only bilateral deals with sovereign states should govern these arrangements.
in writing. – i voted against proposed cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina on the basis that it advocated the expansion of the operational field of europol. serious concerns have been expressed about the lack of political or judicial accountability europol is subjected to. furthermore, the sharing of sensitive, at times, personal, data of european citizens with third countries is something i found impossible to endorse.
in writing. ‒ whilst i support strategic co-operation, i do not support europol. i therefore abstained on this vote.
in writing. – ukip does not oppose the concept of sharing intelligence with neighbouring countries. however we have concerns that europol is an organisation that should not be the agency in charge. only bilateral deals with sovereign states should govern these arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome this cooperation agreement between europol and bosnia-herzegovina. the need for more international cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism has been highlighted by recent tragic events in europe. this is especially the case within europe, where the current migration crisis has demonstrated the difficulty national border authorities have in monitoring and preventing the movement of unauthorised individuals. this agreement allows for the exchange of specialist knowledge, strategic analysis, information on crime prevention methods and support in individual criminal investigations, a useful tool for both bosnia-herzegovina and europol. the benefits of this deal to european security are clear, and i am happy to support it in today’s vote.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of sharing intelligence with neighbouring countries. however we have concerns that europol is an organisation that should not be the agency in charge. only bilateral deals with sovereign states should govern these arrangements.
in writing. – ukip does not oppose the concept of sharing intelligence with neighbouring countries. however we have concerns that europol is an organisation that should not be the agency in charge. only bilateral deals with sovereign states should govern these arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this new agreement establishing police cooperation between europol and bosnia herzegovina to step up the joint fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious international crime.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of sharing intelligence with neighbouring countries. however we have concerns that europol is an organisation that should not be the agency in charge. only bilateral deals with sovereign states should govern these arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i support cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina. this country in the western balkans is among those threatened by radical islam and i therefore consider that coordination between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina in the security field is very much needed and appropriate for further deepening.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not oppose the concept of sharing intelligence with neighbouring countries. however we have concerns that europol is an organisation that should not be the agency in charge. only bilateral deals with sovereign states should govern these arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i wish for bosnia to work with the nations of europe on a bilateral basis and not through the mechanisms of the eu so i abstained on this vote.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote to approve the use of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the irish government have applied for eur 442,293 from this eu fund to help 108 workers who have lost their job. ukip oppose the use of this fund as british taxpayers are being made to pay eu dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity dictates that decisions should be taken at the closest possible level to the citizen – in this case at regional or national level. therefore, these projects should not be funded by the european union. it is absurd that the arbiters of whether this funding should, or should not, be given are members of the european parliament with no detailed knowledge of the situation. this project may well be of benefit to the people of ireland, but i am not best placed to judge. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be scrapped, which would give money back to the member states to decide for themselves about the appropriateness of such funding. consequently, i had no option but to vote against – even though this may be a worthwhile project.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote to approve the use of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the irish government has applied for € 442,293 from this eu fund to help 108 workers who have lost their jobs. ukip opposes the use of this fund as british taxpayers are being made to pay eu dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ there is no such thing as public money, so it is essential that eu expenditure is closely scrutinised on the basis of value for money for taxpayers and i do not believe the european globalisation adjustment fund is an efficient tool that offers value for money in terms of reintegrating redundant workers back into labour market. the united kingdom government has never availed itself of funding under the egf due to its inefficiency and i believe it is time that money spent under the egf was put to better use. for these reasons i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a means by which the eu can give valuable help to local economies hard hit by company closures, and so i voted in favour of this application. i regret that the uk government has not taken advantage of this fund in wales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application from ireland for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund given that the pre-existing difficult situation in the area, combined with the cumulative effect of three major closures in the mro sector within a short period, and the fact that no employers in this sector remain in ireland, may justify a derogation from the threshold of 500 redundancies set out in article 4(1) of the egf regulation. the application is for 108 redundancies in the southern and eastern ireland region working repair and installation of machinery equipment for aviation. all redundant workers are expected to participate in the measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which presents an application for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund in order to assist former employees of pwa international ltd in ireland following the redundancy of 500 employees due to major structural changes in world trade patterns. the funds will go towards the reintegration of these persons back into the job market. i believe that workers who end up becoming redundant due to global economic trends, which they have no control over, need at least to be given the help to find alternative employment as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote to approve the use of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the irish government have applied for eur 442 293 from this eu fund to help 108 workers who have lost their job. ukip oppose the use of this fund as british taxpayers are being made to pay eu dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. – i voted against this legislative vote to approve the use of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the irish government have applied for eur 442 293 from this eu fund to help 108 workers who have lost their job. ukip oppose the use of this fund as british taxpayers are being made to pay eu dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the fund, as i support giving assistance to reintegrate workers in the labour market made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that as a result of this vote ireland will get eu aid worth eur 400 000 for 108 redundant aircraft repair workers to help find new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, labour meps have always voted in favour of egf applications and these applications are no different. it is also worth noting that opportunities for the uk to claim from this fund may arise in the near future and the egf could help those made redundant and wider communities affected by large shocks to the local economy. in addition, the egf can do this whilst minimising the cost to the uk government.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote to approve the use of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the irish government have applied for eur 442 293 from this eu fund to help 108 workers who have lost their job. ukip oppose the use of this fund as british taxpayers are being made to pay eu dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote to approve the use of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the irish government have applied for eur 442 293 from this eu fund to help 108 workers who have lost their job. ukip oppose the use of this fund as british taxpayers are being made to pay eu dole money for poor economic decisions in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i vote against all of these proposals out of principle, this is because the uk does not receive these kind of payments.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation of the egf is the 16th time it has been used in 2015. eur 40 million being mobilised to help those in ireland who have been made redundant because of the major structural changes in the world’s trade patterns, which led to three major closures and the redundancy of 108 workers in pwa international limited, who repair and install machinery equipment in southern and eastern ireland. i have always voted in favour of egf applications, and i cannot agree with the ideologically driven opposition to this much needed funding by the tories. the uk could benefit massively from the mobilisation of these funds, and it would definitely minimise the costs to the government when it comes to helping those who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ 108 aircraft repair workers have been made redundant in southern and eastern ireland. the financial contribution granted through the european globalisation adjustment fund, which i supported in plenary today, will aid all affected workers by providing funding for guidance and career planning, training grants, educational programmes and time limited allowances.
in writing. ‒ i fully support measures that put in place policies that create growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor do i believe it is an efficient tool that offers value for money for eu taxpayers, therefore i voted against.
in writing. – we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ for the record, i wish to confirm that i abstained on this vote.
in writing. – i abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ invasive species are undoubtedly an increasing problem in our globalised world, threatening biodiversity and costing the eu economy an estimated eur 12 billion a year. however, i have deep concerns about whether this list of 37 species is going to help eu member states tackle invasive species in a focused and proportionate way. the list has some key omissions, including japanese knotweed, one of the most destructive and problematic invasive species on the continent, and takes in some harmless plants and animals which could lead to significant costs. plant sellers and pet keepers across my constituency of the west midlands have contacted me, concerned about this list and the inclusion of species such as raccoons and water hyacinth, extremely popular with uk pond owners and sold for decades without any problems. such shortcomings, and a lack of recognition of climate variation within the eu risk undermining the very purpose of the basic act on invasive species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106 regarding the list of invasive alien species given there are legitimate concerns that the commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive species excludes a significant number of problematic invasive alien species and at the same time includes a number of species that are not detrimental to biodiversity, the ecosystem, human health or the economy in any way.
in writing. ‒ i objected to the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of 36 invasive alien species of union concern. the initial list ignores species that are amongst the most detrimental ias in europe. some terrestrial plant and mammal species comply with the criteria and a robust risk assessment is available, yet they are not included on the list. mammal species that are among the most rapidly expanding alien species in europe in recent years are not listed. the widely spread and rapidly expanding plant species, with considerable and well documented adverse effects on human health, are not listed either. the 2020 biodiversity strategy will fail if we won’t fight the real challenges we are currently facing. the ias regulation can deliver real results, but only if rightly implemented and supported by the local authorities.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. – i abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately invasive alien species are numerous and it is therefore important to ensure that priority is given to addressing the subset of invasive alien species considered to be of union concern. i do not believe the commission proposal reaches this objective.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as i believe this will have unnecessary consequences. if i voted in favour or against this proposal it could lead to more eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree that the commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive species needs to be reconsidered. many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species are incapable of causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity, the ecosystem, human health or the economy. for example, as one constituent has pointed out to me, the water hyacinth would not be able to survive in the climate of the west midlands and as such i would need further convincing as to why it may be included in the invasive species list. hence, i join this call on the commission to withdraw this draft implementing regulation and consult again stakeholders and the general public.
madam president, i strongly oppose this objection which ignores scientific facts and evidence and seeks to prevent not only this authorisation, but all gm food and feed product authorisations, including those that have already passed safety assessments. this is madness. it will only penalise our farmers who rely on gm feed. in this case, efsa said that gm maize nk 603 was safe. now, we should be led by the science on this, not by dogma. if a product is deemed safe by efsa, there is no justification to deny it being placed on the market. what is the point of efsa if we ignore their advice and base our opinion on personal dogma? the rest of the world is embracing gm. it has huge potential; it can be more environmentally friendly than conventional farming; it offers hope in drought-hit regions, and it is safe. europe is being left behind with its medieval attitude to this new technology. we should embrace it, not reject it.
in writing. – we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution to reject the authorisation of gmo maize nk 603 x t25. president juncker’s pre-election promise to democratise the eu gmo authorisation procedure has been fudged and the commission itself acknowledges the irregularity of the current system in its preamble to the proposal on gm food and feed. it is therefore unacceptable that the commission has chosen to continue to authorise gm products in a system it has admitted itself is flawed. the authorisation is also controversial as the given gmo is engineered to be glyphosate intolerant. the use of this chemical as a herbicide has been found to be ‘probably carcinogenic’ by the who who used only published peer-reviewed studies to evaluate the toxicity of the chemical. on the other hand, efsa, who found that it was ‘unlikely’ to cause cancer, expanded their studies to include non-peer-reviewed industry studies and did not examine, as the who did, the combination effects of the formulated products. i am therefore very pleased that this objection passed and sent a strong signal to the commission.
in writing. ‒ whilst this resolution criticises the commission’s behaviour, it also enshrines eu competence. i opposed certain amendments relating to glyphosate. it has been brought to my attention that, whilst glyphosate is indeed used with relation to gm crops, it is also used for non-gm crops without causing any problems. i understand the anti-gm case, and to an extent i have some sympathy with it, but these amendments do not relate to gm. furthermore, some of the language used (like the word ‘enslaving’), is inappropriate and distasteful.
in writing. – i abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection pursuant to rule 106 concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize given the commission should establish a new legislative initiative on the authorisation of gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because i agree that the current approval system for gm food and feed is not functioning as well as it could be. i also voted in favour of amendment 6 because the commission’s decision to authorise genetically-modified maize breaches article 13(2) of the treaty, similarly amendment 1 also points out that authorisation of gm maize disrespects the principle of sincere cooperation.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states. do we really need the eu telling us what we can and cannot do in every aspect of our lives? at what point are we going to say, enough is enough? roll on the brexit.
in writing. ‒ today’s vote sends a clear message to the commission, with this house standing against gm import authorisations. it is now incumbent upon the commission to revisit their plans in this area.
in writing. – i abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted to tell the eu commission to withdraw its authorisation of the use of glyphosate-tolerant gm maize nk603xt25 in food and feed. glyphosate, a herbicide, is classified as ‘probably carcinogenic’ by the who. i urge the commission to suspend any authorisations for gm food and feed as long as the authorisation procedure, currently under review, has not been improved.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ given my skeptical view of gmos, i decided to support the objection.
in writing. ‒ we abstained because the objection, whilst criticising commission behaviour, recognises and enshrines their power on a topic which should be a choice of member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as it recognises and enshrines eu competence (power) over areas i do not wish to see the eu have power over.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because i agree that the current approval system for gm food and feed is not functioning as well as it could be. i also voted in favour of amendment 6 because the commission’s decision to authorise genetically-modified maize breaches article 13(2) of the treaty, similarly amendment 1 also points out that authorisation of gm maize disrespects the principle of sincere cooperation.
in writing. – the title of this recommendation to the commission highlights not just transparency but also coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies – in other words the ground is being prepared for harmonisation of corporate taxes across the eu, which will end the healthy tax competition between jurisdictions that is the only brake on ever-growing public expenditure. ukip accordingly voted against tax harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i do not believe in harmonisation of taxation policies, which should in my view be the sole responsibility of the member states. this report, inter alia, calls for the commission to introduce eu tax information numbers, enter tax agreements with third countries, and interfere with domestic laws concerning tax havens and tax abuse. finally, the call for a common consolidated corporate tax base is an anathema to what ukip stands for.
in writing. – the title of this recommendation to the commission highlights not just transparency but also coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies – in other words the ground is being prepared for harmonisation of corporate taxes across the eu, which will end the healthy tax competition between jurisdictions that is the only brake on ever-growing public expenditure. ukip accordingly voted against tax harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ whilst i am strongly in favour of tackling tax fraud, i cannot support this report, calling as it does for a common consolidated corporate tax base and infringing on member state sovereignty over tax policy. i am fundamentally opposed to harmonisation of corporate tax rates in the eu; nation states should be able to decide their own tax rates as best suited to their national economies. the fight against tax fraud needs to be focused through the oecd and the g20; the eu should be rigorously following their work in exchanging information to detect fraud. for these reasons i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as tax is firmly a member state competency. whilst i support the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion this is not the right forum. the oecd has made excellent progress in this arena and we do not need to duplicate it. this knee jerk reaction against the ‘luxleaks’ is neither necessary nor appropriate, rather it is a power grab by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate tax avoidance, because it is clear that something needs to be done about the billions and billions of pounds lost every year to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. people across the uk, and the eu, are rightly furious that they face higher taxes or cuts to public services as a result of multinational companies with clever advisers reducing their own tax bill to almost nothing. this report sets out a clear plan for action at eu level that will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. the tories should be ashamed of voting against it, and david cameron should listen to the voice of british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is clear that something needs to be done about the billions and billions of pounds lost every year to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. this report, co-drafted by labour mep anneliese dodds, marks a major step forward. people across the uk, and the eu, are rightly furious that they face higher taxes or cuts to public services as a result of multinational companies with clever advisers reducing their own tax bills to almost nothing. this report sets out a clear plan for action at eu level that will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. the tories should be deeply ashamed of voting against it. david cameron should listen to the voice of british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the title of this recommendation to the commission highlights not just transparency but also coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies – in other words the ground is being prepared for harmonisation of corporate taxes across the eu, which will end the healthy tax competition between jurisdictions that is the only brake on ever-growing public expenditure. ukip accordingly voted against tax harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that something needs to be done about the billions and billions of pounds lost every year to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. this report, co-drafted by labour mep anneliese dodds, marks a major step forward. people across the uk, and the eu, are rightly furious that they face higher taxes or cuts to public services as a result of multinational companies with clever advisers reducing their own tax bills to almost nothing. this report sets out a clear plan for action at eu level that will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. the tories should be deeply ashamed of voting against it. david cameron should listen to the voice of british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i do not support all the calls in this report and in particular oppose calls for a common consolidated corporate tax base. tax raising powers are and should remain a member state competence. nevertheless, the eu does have a role to play in promoting transparency and eliminating tax evasion. this report makes a number of useful recommendations in this regard and on balance i was able to give it my qualified support.
in writing. – the title of this recommendation to the commission highlights not just transparency but also coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies – in other words the ground is being prepared for harmonisation of corporate taxes across the eu, which will end the healthy tax competition between jurisdictions that is the only brake on ever-growing public expenditure. my colleagues and i accordingly voted against tax harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is clear that something needs to be done about the billions and billions of pounds lost every year to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. people across the uk, and the eu, are rightly furious that they face higher taxes or cuts to public services as a result of multinational companies with clever advisers reducing their own tax bill to almost nothing. this report sets out a clear plan for action at eu level that will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. the tories should be ashamed of voting against it, and david cameron should listen to the voice of british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on the legal steps needed to improve corporate tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate tax avoidance, because it is clear that something needs to be done about the billions and billions of pounds lost every year to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. people across the uk, and the eu, are rightly furious that they face higher taxes or cuts to public services as a result of multinational companies with clever advisers reducing their own tax bill to almost nothing. this report sets out a clear plan for action at eu level that will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. the tories should be ashamed of voting against it, and david cameron should listen to the voice of british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the title of this recommendation to the commission highlights not just transparency but also coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies – in other words the ground is being prepared for harmonisation of corporate taxes across the eu, which will end the healthy tax competition between jurisdictions that is the only brake on ever-growing public expenditure. ukip accordingly voted against tax harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i am very much in favour of fighting tax evasion and tax avoidance. on the other hand, i cannot support attempts to harmonise direct taxes, because this is in line not only with my belief that there should be full tax competition in the eu, but also with the electoral programme for which i was elected to this house by the czech voters. i could not therefore support the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the title of this recommendation to the commission highlights not just transparency but also coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies – in other words the ground is being prepared for harmonisation of corporate taxes across the eu, which will end the healthy tax competition between jurisdictions that is the only brake on ever-growing public expenditure. ukip accordingly voted against tax harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it calls on the commission to introduce eu tax information numbers. this could allow the eu to enter into tax agreements with third party countries; instead i believe this should be done on a bilateral basis.
in writing. ‒ it is quite clear that something needs to be done about the billions of pounds lost every year to tax evasion as well as aggressive tax avoidance. this is why i voted in favour of this report that sets out a clear plan of action for action at eu level that will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. people across the west midlands – as well as the rest of the eu – are rightly annoyed that they face higher taxes and cuts to public services because of multinationals reducing their own tax contribution to the society from which they have been able to grow their businesses and profits. the tories should be ashamed that they voted against this report. david cameron and his party should listen to the voices of the british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate tax avoidance, because it is clear something needs to be done about the billions and billions of pounds lost every year to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. people across the uk, and the eu, are rightly furious that they face higher taxes or cuts to public services as a result of multinational companies with clever advisers reducing their own tax bill to almost nothing. this report sets out a clear plan for action at eu level which will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. the tories should be ashamed of voting against it, and david cameron should listen to the voice of british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ while the issues of tax fraud and tax avoidance by companies are extremely important, i do not believe that the correct level to deal with them is within the eu. this report calls for common taxation at an eu level, a proposal that i fundamentally disagree with. taxation is a sovereign issue that should be up to national governments to decide what suits their citizens and their economies best. the uk government has been at the lead of oecd negotiations on a global agreement around taxation and new beps proposals. each member state of the eu should be working at a global level to ensure a consistent approach to taxation which will limit the opportunity for avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes mandatory reporting of tax arrangements, meaning all companies that operate across borders must publicly report on where they make their profits and where they pay their taxes. by introducing laws at eu level, we can prevent companies jumping across borders to reduce their tax bills to almost zero. this report is an important step in setting the tax agenda for the european union and closing loopholes that multinational companies have been able to exploit by playing one country against another. we need a fairer taxation system that means citizens no longer foot the bill for the corporate sector.
in writing. ‒ tax injustice, tax avoidance, and tax evasion, are key drivers of the rampant inequality in our world today. trillions upon trillions of euros are stashed away, where they should be used for health, education, transport, social care, and all the other public services and investment we urgently need. only by working together within the eu can member states take the necessary action to tackle this issue. we demand new legislation to crack down on this tax avoidance and evasion. mandatory, public country-by-country reporting of tax arrangements, the new ‘fair taxpayer label’ for companies who engage in good tax practices, better protection for whistle-blowers, a common consolidated corporate tax base, a common definition of tax havens, and sanctions for firms making use of tax havens; all these are important tools in our arsenal in the fight against avoidance and evasion. i urge the commission and member states to implement these measures swiftly and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on corporate tax avoidance, because it is clear that something needs to be done about the estimated eur 1 trillion of tax revenue lost every year to tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance in the eu. people across the uk, and the eu, are rightly furious that they face higher taxes or cuts to public services as a result of multinational companies with clever advisers reducing their own tax bill to almost nothing. this report sets out a clear plan for action at eu level that will stop these kinds of practices once and for all. the tories should be ashamed for voting against it, and david cameron should listen to the voice of british and european people and act on these recommendations as soon as possible.
madam president, i very much welcome my colleague mr belder’s report and its emphasis on stronger relations and constructive dialogue to achieve further improvements in human rights and democracy in china. the uk is china’s number one investment destination in europe and our economic ties are growing. in the west midlands, my constituency, this is especially true. this is the manufacturing heartland of the uk and we have an export surplus of nearly gbp 3 billion a year with china and we now have direct flights from birmingham to beijing as well. that said, we must be mindful of the problems of human rights and democracy that continue in china. but we will never achieve reforms by lecturing the chinese government. we will achieve them by interacting and trading with china so that we can demonstrate the many benefits, including economic, of greater respect for human rights and democracy. trade brings people together, it makes everyone richer and, ultimately, it will break down barriers and achieve a better outcome, both for europeans and for people in china.
madam president, i have supported this report, mainly because it contains a passage concerning the human rights situation in china. the report clearly states that the human rights situation is a serious concern and that china really must do something about human rights today if it is to be considered a developed country and a democratic country in the future. i am very pleased that the report refers, for example, to the foreign ngo management law, which, if it is implemented in the future, will severely restrict civil society in china and will lead to international humanitarian organisations being unable to support chinese dissidents in the future, unable to support humanitarian goals in china. so yes, trading with china is necessary, it's economically beneficial, of course, but without reference to human rights, it's wrong in my opinion. so, as i said, it's good that we're talking about human rights alongside economic benefits.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of the eu having any sort of foreign policy. this report gives an overall look at relations between the eu and china, supporting current agreements and calls for more eu action in several areas. this is therefore an endorsement of eu foreign policy. however it also raises several legitimate concerns, in particular with the attempted interference by the chinese government in democratic processes within hong kong. in light of this balance ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which has some good points to it but fundamentally seeks to politicise trade and other agreements with china.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of the eu having any sort of foreign policy. this report gives an overall look at relations between the eu and china, supporting current agreements and calls for more eu action in several areas. this is therefore an endorsement of eu foreign policy. however it also raises several legitimate concerns, in particular with the attempted interference by the chinese government in democratic processes within hong kong. in light of this balance ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the belder report given it is important we start drawing the map for eu and china relations in the years ahead on crucial issues like global governance, human rights, and cooperation on investment and trade. the recent impact of china’s black monday on the stock market and the impact on our industry of chinese dumping, not least in the uk steel and ceramics sectors, including in my region of the west midlands, show that its financial and economic policies should also be firmly on our radar. acting as a block, the eu can help ensure that the interests of these key sectors in member states are promoted and protected.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which says the eu and china must work more closely together to tackle global challenges and threats, such as terrorism, illegal migration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of the eu having any sort of foreign policy. this report gives an overall look at relations between the eu and china, supporting current agreements and calls for more eu action in several areas. this is therefore an endorsement of eu foreign policy. however it also raises several legitimate concerns, in particular with the attempted interference by the chinese government in democratic processes within hong kong. in light of this balance ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ china is an increasingly important partner to the eu and it is essential that relations continue to develop for our mutual benefit. nonetheless we must continue to uphold human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i consider that this report struck the correct balance and was able to vote in favour.
in writing. – ukip does not support the principle of the eu having any sort of foreign policy. this report gives an overall look at relations between the eu and china, supporting current agreements and calls for more eu action in several areas. this is therefore an endorsement of eu foreign policy. however it also raises several legitimate concerns, in particular with the attempted interference by the chinese government in democratic processes within hong kong. in light of this balance i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as it helps in defining the cooperation line for the eu with one of the most important players at global level.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which says the eu and china must work more closely together to tackle global challenges and threats, such as terrorism, illegal migration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which covers the relations between eu and china, divided into four parts covering eu-china strategic partnership and cooperation, the internal situation, human rights and cross-strait relations. it is important because it draws the map for eu and china relations in the years ahead.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of the eu having any sort of foreign policy. this report gives an overall look at relations between the eu and china, supporting current agreements and calls for more eu action in several areas. this is therefore an endorsement of eu foreign policy. however it also raises several legitimate concerns, in particular with the attempted interference by the chinese government in democratic processes within hong kong. in light of this balance ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ ukip does not support the principle of the eu having any sort of foreign policy. this report gives an overall look at relations between the eu and china, supporting current agreements and calls for more eu action in several areas. this is therefore an endorsement of eu foreign policy. however it also raises several legitimate concerns, in particular with the attempted interference by the chinese government in democratic processes within hong kong. in light of this balance ukip abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i believe individual nation states should deal with each other directly, rather than through the mechanisms of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report makes a general overview of the eu’s relationship with china and vice versa. it addresses the political, economic and environmental aspects of our relationship as well as the sore topic of social and human rights. it was important that this document be voted through the european parliament, as it aids in defining the cooperation line for the eu with one of today’s most important global players.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report on eu-china relations which draws the map for eu and china relations in the years ahead. the report addresses important issues such as the eu and china strategic partnership and cooperation, the internal situation, human rights and cross-strait relations.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of or support the eu acting on behalf of the uk in any international capacity. the report calls for a new fund to be created to which financial contributions would be compulsory. it called for a european action plan and that the private sector align with eu development objectives. however we fully support the calls to end sexual based violence and stop discrimination of the lgbti community, and that more needs to be done to end human rights abuses. while we cannot support the eu acting in the world, we cannot oppose calls to end abuses around the world – so we have to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ whilst of course i agree with much of the content of this report, once again this covers on an area which should be the member states’ responsibility. the united kingdom should speak for itself, and it is not for the commission to tell us what to say. i therefore abstained on the report.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of or support the eu acting on behalf of the uk in any international capacity. the report calls for a new fund to be created to which financial contributions would be compulsory. it called for a european action plan and that the private sector align with eu development objectives. however we fully support the calls to end sexual based violence and stop discrimination of the lgbti community, and that more needs to be done to end human rights abuses. while we cannot support the eu acting in the world, we cannot oppose calls to end abuses around the world – so we have to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on preparing for the world humanitarian summit given it is crucial we have a clear view on challenges and opportunities in this field in the run-up to the istanbul summit. given the significant number of grave humanitarian crises around the world, including in syria, iraq, yemen, and many countries in sub-sahara africa, it is of paramount importance that the eu, as the world’s most important humanitarian actor, takes the lead during the summit to build partnerships and find common ground on humanitarian principles and international standards, and to enhance cooperation and coordination of assistance. key action points should include better protection for humanitarian aid workers, more cooperation and complementarity between humanitarian and development policies, and finding new sources for funding. the absolute priority should be the protection of children and their access to education. i therefore welcome that this report calls for specific protection to be provided to children who have fled their homes in a crisis, and notably to the facilitation of their access to education.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it encourages the eu to assume leadership and play an important role in the world humanitarian summit (whs) process. i would also encourage the uk government to join the eu in taking a lead in humanitarian action, and to consider building partnerships and find common ground on humanitarian principles and international standards, through the opportunities presented through the whs.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of or support the eu acting on behalf of the uk in any international capacity. the report calls for a new fund to be created to which financial contributions would be compulsory. it called for a european action plan and that the private sector align with eu development objectives. however we fully support the calls to end sexual based violence and stop discrimination of the lgbti community, and that more needs to be done to end human rights abuses. while we cannot support the eu acting in the world, we cannot oppose calls to end abuses around the world – so we have to abstain on this report.
in writing. – my colleagues and i abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of or support the eu acting on behalf of the uk in any international capacity. the report calls for a new fund to be created to which financial contributions would be compulsory. it called for a european action plan and that the private sector align with eu development objectives. however we fully support the calls to end sexual based violence and stop discrimination of the lgbti community, and that more needs to be done to end human rights abuses. while we cannot support the eu acting in the world, we cannot oppose calls to end abuses around the world – so we have to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the eu, as the leading donor and key global player in humanitarian action, has both a responsibility and the necessary leverage to take a leadership role in the quest for more efficient and effective ways to meet the needs of those affected by conflicts and disasters. it should consider the whs as an opportunity to build partnerships and find common ground on humanitarian principles and international standards, and to enhance cooperation and coordination of assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution which ‘stresses that today’s enormous humanitarian challenges require a more inclusive, diverse and truly global humanitarian system, to be strengthened at the whs, that, at the same time, recognises the diversity in today’s humanitarian response system and the complementary roles of all actors; calls on the eu to promote a “global consensus on humanitarian action” that reaffirms the principles of humanitarian aid and the obligations and entitlements under international humanitarian law (ihl), while ensuring people-centred and human rights-based protection responses, and holds governments accountable for their roles and responsibilities in protecting people; raises awareness of the negative impacts of the politicisation of humanitarian assistance, and recalls that the upholding of, and continued commitment to, core humanitarian principles is critical to ensure a humanitarian space in areas of conflict and natural disasters’.
in writing. ‒ given recent humanitarian crises and particularly in the case of syria, where the uk government has rightly provided aid to affected regions, labour meps should welcome this report and put particular pressure on the uk government to lead as a key global player in humanitarian action. access to education must be a priority in humanitarian emergencies, and labour meps should join calls for this to be a key point on the agenda of the world humanitarian summit next year in istanbul.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of or support the eu acting on behalf of the uk in any international capacity. the report calls for a new fund to be created to which financial contributions would be compulsory. it called for a european action plan and that the private sector align with eu development objectives. however we fully support the calls to end sexual based violence and stop discrimination of the lgbti community, and that more needs to be done to end human rights abuses. while we cannot support the eu acting in the world, we cannot oppose calls to end abuses around the world – so we have to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of or support the eu acting on behalf of the uk in any international capacity. the report calls for a new fund to be created to which financial contributions would be compulsory. it called for a european action plan and that the private sector align with eu development objectives. however we fully support the calls to end sexual based violence and stop discrimination of the lgbti community, and that more needs to be done to end human rights abuses. while we cannot support the eu acting in the world, we cannot oppose calls to end abuses around the world – so we have to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because even though i agree with many things that have been said in this report, it is my belief that many of the things that this report discusses should be discussed by individual nation states at the world humanitarian summit.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it encourages the eu to assume leadership and play an important role in the world humanitarian summit (whs) process. i would also encourage the uk government to join the eu in taking a lead in humanitarian action and consider building partnerships and find common ground on humanitarian principles and international standards, through the opportunities presented through the whs.
in writing. ‒ as a leading donor and key global player in humanitarian action, the eu should take a leading role in the first-ever world humanitarian summit (whs). i therefore welcome this report outlining the key challenges and opportunities for humanitarian assistance. the humanitarian crises pose many challenges and the whs presents an opportunity for the eu to build partnership and find common ground on humanitarian principles and international standards, enhance cooperation and coordination of assistance. together, we must ensure children, women and people with disabilities are protected, improve and increase the cooperation between humanitarian and development policies, and also ensure access to education is a priority in humanitarian emergencies.
in writing. ‒ access to education must be a priority in humanitarian emergencies; young people cannot allow their education to become another casualty of a disaster, and i join the call for this to be a key point on the agenda of the world humanitarian summit next year in istanbul. it is vital that this issue is not ignored in the coming years and that we move to alleviate this problem.
madam president, with christmas just around the corner, many steelworkers and their families are facing a grim end of the year. sites are closing, with thousands of well-paid, highly skilled jobs being lost – like in redcar, in my home region – or threatened, especially in the supply chain. we have had enough summits and high-level meetings. now we need to see real action. it is clear that the market is saturated with overcapacity, especially from china. today i am calling on the uk government to stop blocking the vital reform of eu trade defence measures. edouard martin’s report offers long-term solutions to this crisis and, if implemented correctly, could put european steel on the path to a sustainable future. that is why i supported it today. it is too late for redcar’s steelworkers. let us not let any more of our communities go down the same route.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals. we believe that eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe. we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ the european union is rather tying itself in knots with this report. on the one hand, it bemoans the high price of energy and its impact upon base metals in the european union. that is perfectly reasonable as a position to hold. on the other hand, the same report suggests a position on climate change which would lead to higher energy costs. that, too, is a perfectly reasonable position to hold. but it is not, in my view, possible to have your cake and eat it. the two positions are logically inconsistent with each other. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. – today ukip voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals. we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe. we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ i am extremely concerned at the current situation in the steel sector, and the base metals sector in general. the supply of raw materials and high energy prices due to european energy policy are having an impact on the european base metals sector’s competitiveness. however, i cannot support the introduction of a carbon border adjustment mechanism; this would encourage protectionism and potentially lead to retaliation from international trading mechanisms. obliging member states to provide compensation for indirect costs encroaches upon fiscal sovereignty, and indeed such harmonisation would be too burdensome to implement given the disparities that exist between member states in terms of energy costs and intensity.
in writing. ‒ people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we will not be able to solve this problem on our own – by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage. should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets. labour meps will continue to work on this issue and to call on the uk government to take strong and effective action at the national level to support the steel industry and stop massive direct and indirect job losses in this sector.
in writing. – conservatives recognise that the base metals industry is a cornerstone of our economy and recognise the increased challenges the sector has faced over recent years. we are alarmed at the surge in chinese steel exports that have flooded the world market, often being sold overseas at a loss. there have already been a number of closures in the uk and if the current situation continues unabated further wholesale closures are inevitable. we are therefore in favour of the calls in the report backing eu-level anti-dumping measures which support the uk steel sector. however we do not support the introduction of a carbon border adjustment mechanism, which could encourage protectionism, lead to retaliation and undermine efforts to secure a global approach to climate change and emissions reduction. conservatives also welcome the focus on the impact of high energy prices on competitiveness and agree that more needs to be done to compensate for indirect costs. however, obliging member states to provide such compensation encroaches upon fiscal sovereignty, and harmonisation would be too burdensome to implement given the disparities that exist between member states in terms of energy costs and intensity. conservatives therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to develop a sustainable base metals industry in europe. people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs in the uk, including in my region of the west midlands, and across the eu as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we will not be able to solve this problem on our own – by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping, and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. if the existing system of free allowances of carbon emissions fails to address the issue of carbon leakage, we will need to examine the option of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets as a last resort. together with colleagues, i will continue to work on this issue and call on the uk government to take strong and effective action to support the steel industry and combat job losses in the sector.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals. we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe. we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with base metals, including steel, aluminium, zinc and copper, which are needed for industrial growth across europe and seeks to develop a sustainable base metals industry in europe. people working in the industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we cannot solve this problem on our own – but by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping and find europe-wide solutions to these problems. in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage. if this is not sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets. labour meps will continue to work on this issue and to call on the uk government to take strong, effective action at national level to support the steel industry and to stop job losses.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable in the long term and both maintains and develops this important sector. people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu. it faces a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we will not be able to solve this problem on our own. by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage. should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets. labour meps will continue to work on this issue and call on the uk government to take strong and effective action at national level to support the steel industry and stop massive direct and indirect job losses in this sector.
in writing. ‒ the steel industry across europe, including in my own country, has faced extreme hardship in recent times as a result of a combination of factors. the eu has an important role to play in supporting the industry and i accordingly voted in favour of this report. it is shameful to note that the scottish government was recently barred by the uk government from attending key meetings in brussels.
in writing. – today my colleagues and i voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals. we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe. we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable long-term and both maintains and develops this important sector. people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we will not be able to solve this problem on our own – by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage. should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets. we will continue to work on this issue and call on the uk government to take strong and effective action at national level to support the steel industry and stop massive direct and indirect job losses in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which points out that the base metals industry is facing a significant drop in demand and strong global competition, mainly from third countries without the same high standards and strict regulations as in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable in the long term and both maintains and develops this important sector. people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we will not be able to solve this problem on our own. by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage. should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets. labour meps will continue to work on this issue and call on the uk government to take strong and effective action at national level to support the steel industry and stop massive direct and indirect job losses in this sector.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the report entitled developing a sustainable european industry of base metals. we believe that eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy-intensive industries in europe. we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ today ukip voted against the report entitled developing a sustainable european industry of base metals. we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy-intensive industries in europe. we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not believe that the eu mechanisms are the best solution for resolving many of the energy issues we have.
in writing. ‒ the base metals that this report deals with are aluminium, copper, steel and zinc, which are necessary for industrial growth across europe. currently, the eu is massively dependent on imports and this report seeks to develop not only a competitive base-metals industry in europe, but a sustainable one. people who are working in the steel industry – or related industries – in the uk and elsewhere in the eu are losing their jobs. i will strongly defend the jobs which are affected by the collapse of the steel industry in the west midlands and i will work together at eu level so that we can put pressure on the chinese government over the dumping of steel. we need a european solution to these problems and if the existing system of free allowances of carbon emissions fails to address the issue of carbon leakage, we will need to examine the option of carbon border adjustment mechanisms linked to the ets as a last resort. i will continue to work on this issue and call on the uk government to take strong and effective action to support the steel industry and combat job losses in the sector as well as related sectors.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with base metals, steel, aluminium, zinc and copper, which are necessary for industrial growth across europe. people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of an influx of cheap steel and increasing energy costs. by working together at an eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping, and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. it is also vital that the uk government matches the action called for by labour meps in the coming months.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable long-term and both maintains and develops this important sector. people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we will not be able to solve this problem on our own. by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. in the upcoming work on phase iv of the emissions trading scheme, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage. should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets. i call on the uk government to take strong and effective action to support the steel industry and stop massive direct and indirect job losses in this sector.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with base metals, steel, aluminium, zinc and copper, which are necessary for industrial growth across europe. currently, the eu is dependent on imports of these and this report seeks to develop a sustainable base metals industry in europe. people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs. we will not be able to solve this problem on our own. by working together at eu level we can put pressure on the chinese government over steel dumping, and come up with europe-wide solutions to these problems. labour meps will continue to work on this issue and call on the uk government to take strong and effective action to support the steel industry and combat job losses in the sector.
in writing. – this report seeks to penalise hungary for its defiance of commission rulings, in particular its rejection of the common asylum policy. ukip believes in and is fully supportive of national sovereignty for all member states of the european union. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. – whist i and sinn féin fully acknowledge the gross violations of human rights on the part of the hungarian government, i abstained on this resolution on the basis that the recommendations, if enforced, would set a dangerous precedent in the operation of unelected bodies in the policy-making of a member state. sinn féin whole-heartedly opposes the coercive and draconian policies of the hungarian government, particularly in relation to the ongoing refugee crisis and we acknowledge their acting with impunity provides succour to neighbouring states wishing to act similarly. i fully support the libe committee investigating government actions and support the initiation of article 7.
in writing. ‒ this whole report is a nonsense: are we really proposing to interfere with a democratically-elected government’s policies? i would be appalled if such a report were produced concerning the united kingdom. by voting against this report, i do the obvious courtesy to the hungarian people. they should be sovereign in hungary and free to vote their current government out if they do not like their policies – or re-elect them if they do.
in writing. – this report seeks to penalise hungary for their defiance against commission rulings, in particular their rejection of the common asylum policy. ukip believes in and is fully supportive of national sovereignty for all member states of the european union. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to penalise hungary for its defiance of commission rulings, in particular its rejection of the common asylum policy. ukip believes in and is fully supportive of national sovereignty for all member states of the european union. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the resolution, as i believe that all member states have to comply fully with eu law in their legislative and administrative practice, and all legislation has to reflect and be in accordance with basic european values, namely democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. – this report seeks to penalise hungary for its defiance of commission rulings, in particular its rejection of the common asylum policy. my fellow ukip meps believe in and are fully supportive of national sovereignty for all member states of the european union. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the resolution, as i believe that all member states have to comply fully with eu law in their legislative and administrative practice, and all legislation has to reflect and be in accordance with basic european values, namely democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the eu should start immediately to monitor threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. the commission should assess whether the combined effect of government measures there has led to a ‘systemic deterioration’, which, if the commission fails to address it, could trigger similar developments in other member states too.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to penalise hungary for its defiance of commission rulings, in particular its rejection of the common asylum policy. ukip believes in and is fully supportive of national sovereignty for all member states of the european union. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to penalise hungary for its defiance of commission rulings, in particular its rejection of the common asylum policy. ukip believes in and is fully supportive of national sovereignty for all member states of the european union. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i believe hungary’s national sovereignty should be respected and it is not for the eu to criticise a sovereign nation.
in writing. ‒ we are not ready to accept politics which go against the eu’s fundamental aims and values. the government of hungary is treading the line of what constitutes authoritarian and i am worried about the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. it is for this reason that i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary.
in writing. ‒ the situation hungary is becoming increasingly concerning. therefore i backed a resolution calling on hungary to remember its position in the eu in regard to human rights and particularly with regard to its responsibilities for the humane treatment of refugees. all member states are required to comply fully with eu rules and all legislation must be compatible with this overarching framework – it is concerning that some legislation in hungary that has recently gone through may fall short of these standards. we in the parliament have frequently called the council’s attention to this issue and believe that the commission and the council are undermining the principle of mutual and sincere cooperation by not moving to meet these concerns. the commission must continue its investigations and use all of its tools to solve this problem.
mr president, it is pleasing indeed that this year’s preda report has remained far more focused on fundamental core human rights issues, in stark contrast to previous annual reports – and i have spoken on many of them – which included a host of less pressing and somewhat divisive issues, way beyond the fundamental civil and political rights, to include all sorts of new social and economic areas which undermine and dilute the basic message we should be propagating. our main focus in the european union should be to continue to stop people from being tortured, unjustly imprisoned or executed and to intervene in countries run by extreme and brutal dictators, not to constantly push the limits of the definition of human rights to include less significant economic and social dialogues. increasingly, the human rights concept is being extended and linked to the larger context of interdependence with other domains of eu activity and ambition, including things such as trade negotiations. i believe that this broadened scope of the eu human rights endeavour is debatable in itself, but we must, however, not lose sight of the need to forcefully address and prioritise gross violations as our priority. the challenge is how to mainstream human rights into other areas of activity without losing our focus and risking our credibility.
mr president, as we are today discussing human rights, i feel it is most appropriate to highlight one of the more shameful episodes of recent british history. nearly 40 years ago, back in 1966, an agreement was reached between my country and the united states relating to the chagos islands in the british indian ocean territory granting america a military lease on the island of diego garcia. this led to the forcible removal of inhabitants from the archipelago. many chagossians were sent to mauritius; some came to the uk. they had no choice. none have been allowed to return. their case has as yet been unsuccessful before the british courts and the creation of a marine protection area (mpa) in 2010 has further complicated matters, despite the court of arbitration ruling that this mpa breaches the rules of the un convention on the law of the sea. i support the desire of chagossians to return to their home, especially as definitive studies have underlined that they could re-establish an economically viable community away from the main island and military base of diego garcia. it seems that, for once, we can ‘have our cake and eat it’. her majesty’s government quite rightly supports both falkland islanders and gibraltarians in a right to self-determination and to remain british overseas territories, whilst, at the very same time, shamefully neglecting our duty of care to the chagossian people, successive british governments, both labour and conservative, should hold their heads in shame. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i hate to embarrass you on this one, but i have been active on the issue of the return of the chagossians for many years and pursued it in the previous parliament. how would you react to the fact that the european union and the commission were prepared to make funds available to settle the chagossians back on their rightful territory, but the argument which the british government came up with was that it was not economically viable to do so, in spite of the fact that the eu was prepared to pay for it? so surely this is a case in which the eu has got it right for once and the british government has got it wrong?
blue-card answer.– as someone who opposes british membership of the european union, i believe in a sense of fair play. we do not have a level playing field in the european union. actually, i wish to embarrass the british government, because it is your government and, as i said, the labour government before it, which have been completely unfair with regard to this approach to the chagossian people. i applaud your work on this, but we have to have the right mindset at the westminster parliament, not to go cap-in-hand to the european union or the european institutions to try to get some of our monies back. i think that returns the sense of fair play and better value for money for the british people.
mr president, i was in geneva recently, on behalf of parliament, at the un forum on business and human rights and i welcome paragraph 58 which reaffirms our own parliament’s commitment to that issue. the commission, in its action plan on corporate social responsibility (csr) in 2011, invited all member states to bring forward national action plans. it is regrettable that we approach the end of 2015 and only seven have done so. it is slightly ironic that we led the argument on this in the world and that countries like argentina, chile, colombia, mexico and, last year, the united states agreed to follow our example and yet some of our own member states are failing to do so. i invite mr lambrinidis and the commission to do everything possible to get member states to honour this commitment, perhaps by getting those who have made action plans to help those that have not in a peer review process. secondly, in geneva i was dismayed that we are still continuing, as europe, not to attend the working group on a binding legal instrument. i know there is strong opposition on this issue, but on other issues, like the working group on private security companies, we may not agree but we attend. this is not right for european diplomacy and once again i ask for us to review that policy.
mr president, the human rights and democracy report before us is one of the most comprehensive that has been produced on the subject globally and is the result of hours of work by experts in the european institutions. i am proud that we in europe take a stand on behalf of those whose rights are denied around the world. ask raif badawi and leyla yunus, two individuals who benefitted because we in europe decided to act. however, the struggle for human rights continues. it is a story of long campaigns and uneasy victories against conflict and poverty, against prejudice and ignorance and against crime and justice and repression. today, at the close of 2015, it is a sobering fact that millions suffer in syria and more refugees knock on our doors. plenty of work awaits us in 2016. we must ensure that we ourselves first reflect the very values we seek to promote globally.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i know i have already said it more than once this week, but properly implementing the rules we already have in place is the key to dealing with the challenges we face. the more these challenges grow, the more we need those rules to be properly enforced. on dozens of occasions i have stood in this chamber and pointed out that some member states have been getting away with flouting those rules, and that includes long before the extent of the current crisis hit us. we all know who those member states are, and we all know the commission should have done far more before now in addressing these problems. we understand that funding, and the ability of member states to allocate the necessary resources is, of course, proving very difficult. but that should never be allowed to stand in the way of basic human dignity and upholding the laws to which we are all subject. this forms part of a wider discussion which we need to start having if we are to tackle the migrant crisis effectively. border control, fingerprinting, processing upon arrival, and improving detention conditions – there are rules on all those issues, and it is high time the commission started reminding certain member states, in the strongest terms, that they have to play by them too. lots of new ideas and new proposals are coming, but let us try to get things sorted out with those currently at our disposal before we move on any further. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– you talk about the migrant crisis. the migrant crisis could be settled if free movement was challenged head-on. david cameron had the opportunity for this with the renegotiation package. he said in his bloomberg speech he was going to renegotiate free movement. all of a sudden, when it is crunch time, he shied away from this. why has he done this? why has he given up the opportunity to settle this issue once and for all and cowed to the european union?
blue-card answer. – can i just say that is a bit pathetic, really. i have not had time to be able to talk more broadly on migration issues. i have absolute confidence in the leader of my party and the leader of the uk in negotiating matters which are to the benefit not only of the uk, but also in terms of the order which is necessary in the migrant situation in the european union for the future. it is rather sad that this sort of slanging, which comes from extreme parties in my country, really does not contribute at all to the major debate that we all need to have for the future.
blue-card question. – madam, do you not think that mr renzi, mr tusk and even mr cameron are actually listening to the people that they represent? they do not magic this out of the air; they are actually listening to their citizens’ concerns. i suggest, actually, that you start doing that too.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, an aspect of the logic and coherency of the european union’s migration policy and resettlement programme is in the spotlight in that we now have to deal with the direct consequences of mrs merkel’s siren call to anyone, which has delivered unforeseen numbers seeking a home and a future within the european union. now, while some of those may be genuine asylum seekers or refugees, it is not yet possible to identify and confirm those who are masquerading as such. dictated quotas, unreasonable deadlines and relaxed processing systems to resolve the resettlement logjam have only exacerbated the problems caused by mrs merkel’s ill-judged siren call, and the united kingdom media and press have covered the instances of german and swedish communities overwhelmed by resettled migrants, with stories of arson, street violence and increasing crime levels. in my own south-east region of the united kingdom, the proposed forced settlement of 200 migrants near chichester is viewed with fear, apprehension and mistrust, and that is totally understandable from a community of reportedly only 197 people. the importance of national and citizen consent should be paramount, not overridden or ignored by european union forced numbers imposition, a dictatorial policy and an ill-considered ultimate control over asylum and refugee resettlement. where detention or force has happened, it is because the level of pressure has become more than a member state can bear or tolerate. the european union needs to learn from its mistakes and also change direction completely. if you want newcomers to be welcomed, to smooth the process of acceptance and reintegration, to stop the community backlash and halt the instances of violence, then immediately stop behaving like a dictator, tell mrs merkel to rescind her siren call, and retract the freedom of movement principle. it is called getting a grip of the problem.
mr president, i would actually like to see more detention, particularly in calais. every day we receive reports about violent and aggressive migrants, some with jihadist backgrounds, including the paris attackers. in calais british truck drivers are threatened and attacked on a daily basis whilst trying to do their job. we hear appalling stories of british lorry drivers who are threatened with weapons including knives, baseball bats and even guns. their safety and lives are at risk. hundreds of migrants arriving in norway have been found with jihadi pictures on their cameras. who is checking the calais migrants? nobody has a clue what these migrants are doing in the calais jungle. when are the french authorities finally going to act against these criminals who are threatening the safety of our citizens? do the authorities really want to risk the first truck driver getting killed before they take appropriate action? if police forces are not able to control the situation, make the army step in to ensure security in calais just as they do in the rest of france. if the front national had won the calais region last weekend a better solution would have been found for the lawlessness in the calais jungle. those migrants that commit criminal acts need to be arrested, detained and deported straightaway before it is too late.
mr president, ʻgive me your huddled masses yearning to breathe freeʼ is written proudly on the base of the statute of liberty. what would be written if she stood in lampedusa? maybe, ‘get in line, prepare for internment and deportation, or return to war zones’. fortress europe wants authorities to forcibly register and detain asylum seekers to protect the failed dublin regulation, identify hotspots and deploy rapid-response units. the eu is complicit in serious human rights abuse. yesterday, amnesty international published a report condemning how turkey has unlawfully apprehended, detained and pressurised refugees and asylum seekers to return to war zones. hungary and bulgaria are no better. europe is not faced with a deadly invasion. refugees are people like you and me who, along with their children, are fleeing desperate conflicts in the middle east and north africa – conflicts made worse by the bombs of member states. offering simple, safe and legal routes and de-escalating conflict will help alleviate the conflicts and the crisis. from 1892, ellis island, without computers, neither internet nor modern-day sophistication, offered safe and legal access to millions. so i leave you with a quote from an irish conservative philosopher, edmund burke, who said: ʻthe only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothingʼ.
in writing.– asylum seekers are forced to flee their homes in hope of a better future, only to end up in detention centres which are severely overcrowded with appalling living conditions, offering inappropriate shelter. the lack of information about people’s cases and the lengthy application process leads to people being detained endlessly. conditions and safeguards available to detainees who have committed no crime are, in many cases, worse than those of criminal detainees. their plight is moreover aggravated by the numerous incidents wherein officers have abused their existing powers and used excessive force against detainees. all this has a negative impact on their well-being, especially after the hardship endured during their journey. we should better protect against unjust and abusive treatment in detention facilities, as well as other human rights violations. while promoting human rights, we in europe must ensure that we ourselves reflect the very values we seek to promote globally.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, we in the ecr are also delighted to remember the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement, a framework agreement which put an end to the bloody bosnian civil war two decades ago. whilst dayton did indeed succeed in ending a genocidal conflict which pitted bosniaks, croats and serbs against each other, regrettably bosnia remains burdened by many of the same issues that triggered the war in 1992. divisions remain pervasive and the internationally recognised bosnia and herzegovina state is still contested by some of its constituent national groups in the country. instead of bosnia and herzegovina becoming a well-functioning federal state, it remains heavily plagued with internal disagreements between different national components and is unable to overcome the constitutional and political problems – for instance, resolving the sejdić and finci case and the return of the idps. as the eu continues to focus attention on other regional and global priorities and foreign policy, the challenge for bosnia remains of striking a balance between the need to promote ongoing reform processes to prepare bosnia and herzegovina for application for eu accession, and the capacity to quickly respond to challenges, particularly the one from republika srpska to bosnia’s territorial integrity without the military presence of the eu’s eufor althea, during a period of accelerating eu challenges in other theatres well away from the western balkans.
mr president, the dayton peace agreement signed 20 years ago brought an end to the war but is not allowing bosnia to progress. dayton was envisaged as a transitional compromise among parties in conflict, not a long-term solution, and would create a democratic inclusive and modern society that the people of bosnia deserve. initially, bosnia made terrific progress rebuilding and reforming rapidly after a brutal four-year war. it was only in the last decade that we have seen the deterioration of progress. this is because some bosnian politicians exploit dayton, promoting old ethnic divisions and undermining efforts to move the country forward. bosnia has been held back while neighbouring states have moved ahead towards the eu and nato. constitutional change will eventually be needed for the country to transform it into a fully functional state. however, let us not use dayton as an excuse to say that no progress can be achieved under it. let us not use it as an excuse to stall reform and keep bosnia from moving closer to eu membership. as an s&d rapporteur for bosnia, i will, together with colleagues in the group, do my utmost to help bosnia apply and then negotiate eu membership. for me, addressing the socio-economic problem is key. this has also been repeatedly promised by all bosnian politicians, and we need to hold them to their word. also, i would like to see more civil society, minorities and youth engaging to be part of an open dialogue. out duty is to promote education and remembrance. it is essential to break down the ethnic barriers so that the next generation does not inherit the prejudices of this one. that is what building democracy is all about. meanwhile we must be firm against those that attempt to undermine bosnia’s judicial institutions and promote secession. the changes moving bosnia forward will have to be driven from within. however, we on the outside have a responsibility to continue encouraging and supporting this process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr khan, i think that we can all join together in praising the historic progress that was made 20 years ago in bosnia and herzegovina. point 2 of the joint motion for a resolution states that ‘successive governments have failed to build a fully-functioning, self-sustainable state’ in bosnia and herzegovina, and indeed your speech reflects this. you then go on to say that you believe that bosnia and herzegovina should be moving towards eu membership. what timescale do you envisage for this, please?
blue-card answer.– the time envisaged really depends on the bosnian government and the bosnian people and how quickly they want to go forward, so it is really up to them. we are there to help them and facilitate the best we can.
mr. president, the dayton accords must not be ignored in the name of political ambition. humanity has a duty to ensure that they remain a tragic reminder of the fragility of the futile situation that led to the balkans war and a return of war crimes in the european backyard, just 47 years after the liberation of auschwitz. fortunately, nato and the united nations – organisations tasked with maintaining peace since 1945 – cooperated to restore stability. regrettably the potential causes of conflict remain, so we must respect the internal political structure of both bosnia and herzegovina based on two internal republics separated, unfortunately, along ethnic lines. i fear that further eu influence and expansion into the balkans risks unsettling this particularly fragile situation.
blue-card question.– thank you very much for taking the question. you said in your speech that bosnia is full of corruption, and that may have been just the translation. is the corruption in bosnia a qualification or a negative in its application to be a member state of the european union?
mr president, the recent discovery of yet another mass grave linked to the srebrenica massacre serves as a stark reminder of the sheer savagery of the bosnian war. while the dayton agreement deserves praise as an example of post-conflict peace-building, it provided a template that led to the formation of a dysfunctional state mired by a culture of segregation and patronage. endless internal bickering has hamstrung essential reforms, while young bosnians lack the employment opportunities they desperately need. in the united kingdom, legislation like we see in bosnia that discriminates against anyone on the basis of ethnicity and religion is unthinkable. in the interests of their people, i urge bosnia’s leaders to move forward and put dayton’s constitutional legacy behind them.
madam president, as we mark the 20th anniversary of the peace agreement, we must acknowledge that, beyond formal diplomacy, real peace is built by real people and engaged communities. having listened to the debate, i believe several crucial elements are missing. firstly, we must remember the important role of grassroots civil society in the process of peace-building and reconciliation. we must also acknowledge how disenchanted bosnian young people are with both politics and politicians, and how absolutely crucial youth participation is to the country’s future. bosnian young people need to be actively engaged. as proved by the complete freedom of truth, a project that won this year’s european citizens’ prize, cultural activists, artists, writers and academics all have a role in building cultural dialogue and exchange. there must be significant investment in education for democracy, fundamental rights and citizenship in bosnia. my s&d group colleagues and i put these points into our resolution and i deeply regret that they were removed from the joint draft.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, in august of this year, my staff and i were threatened with a pistol in northern france – i.e. not in the unstable areas of the eu mentioned in this report. just as the single market and the free movement of people facilitates legal trade, by greater measure it also facilitates illegal trade. the reality of this means that those with the will to carry out horrific attacks like those in paris are free to move almost anywhere in europe, and the weapons of terror they rely on remain easy to obtain. all the eu can do in response is to propose to ban antique and deactivated firearms. i certainly do not remember the paris attackers raiding the tower of london to gain access to their high—powered ak—47s. but, since the eu refuses to act in stopping criminal gangs having the free run of the eurozone, are we at all surprised that the traffickers and some migrants are armed? despite the british prime minister, david cameron, claiming credit for the stricter application of coarm criteria, this will do nothing to limit the use of illicit weapons by those who wish to challenge our very existence. in fact, none of the hand—wringing proposals in this document will stop the flow of weaponry into the hands of terrorists without definitive action to put proper checks in place at borders and limit the flow of people to europe. at the same time as criminal gangs are free to use unlicensed weapons across europe, in syria groups like the peshmerga are starved of weaponry and ammunition and training. now is the time to stop talking and act. we must arm the peshmerga, close our porous borders and regain control of our own security so that the principles espoused in this house are not used as a weapon against us.
in writing.– this report is vital in order to understand how member states do business, selling arms to countries at war with their neighbours and often at odds with international humanitarian law. i congratulate my colleague, bodil valero, on this dossier. europe’s security environment has changed drastically and, of course, eu rules on arms exports must be tightened. but if the rules are not implemented then they mean nothing. we must name and shame member states for failing to meet their legal obligation to supply arms export data to the eu and not complying with the existing legal framework. i am afraid this includes the uk. france and greece have also not provided any data at all. this vicious circle must be stopped. it is a modern day tragedy – we do not know where these weapons end up and there is a real risk that they will fall into the hands of repressive regimes, criminals and terrorists in europe, and be used against us. we can never be sure how the political and security situation may change in the countries we do business with; this is why a stricter risk assessment is so important and i call on my colleagues to back this report.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the co-rapporteurs. eu—vietnam relations are of vital importance in the current geopolitical context, especially with asia leapfrogging to global prominence, the us and china each spearheading mega trade deals in the region, and tensions in the south china sea threatening stability in that region. so the eu needs to get actively involved in all of these developments to ensure we keep peace in the region. that is why i wholeheartedly support this partnership and cooperation agreement. i believe it provides a basis for strengthening relations in fields that are of major importance from both a global perspective and our own bilateral perspective. i also welcome the agreement on free trade. i believe this gives vietnam the opportunity to invest the benefits of trade for all groups within its society, reform its governance system, improve its human rights and join the global fight against climate change. i welcome the fact that my political group was able to secure the inclusion of important language on the need to step up efforts in all these fields, and particularly on human trafficking. it is a key migration policy, and the fight against trafficking and organised crime needs to be strengthened. however, this is not just something that vietnam has to deal with. it is also the eu’s responsibility to look at why – and how – we can stop a large number of vietnamese children from being exploited across different parts of the eu. a specialised working group on cooperation in this field should be set up to address this. the commission has to be mindful that the success of any deal hinges on its implementation. firstly, this means keeping in mind that vietnam is still a developing country and we cannot ask it to do more than is realistically possible until we further step up capacity support. the european external action service also has to address shortcomings in relation to the information available to this house on international agreements to allow us fully to carry out our monitoring role and help us make this agreement a basis for a successful strategic relationship in the wider region too. i hope that we will be using this to build on progress achieved, thanks to coordination with vietnam, to kick-start the re-launch of region-to-region fta negotiations. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, especially ms lochbihler, and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, as well as all the teams that supported us, who worked very hard to make this agreement achievable.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the conclusion of the eu—vietnam free trade agreement is excellent news. although i appreciate the concerns raised by some of my colleagues – property rights, child labour and access to education are obvious examples that come to mind – we should ensure that a carefully calibrated political message is sent to vietnam. comprehensive reforms should be encouraged, but threatening language could be counterproductive. considering the distraction caused by the trans-pacific partnership (tpp) and the newly formed asean economic community, we should not overplay our hand by giving vietnam an excuse to focus elsewhere. by all means let us be firm, but at the same time let us show flexibility and pragmatism whenever possible. remember that governments do not do business with each other, people do. fostering trade links is the quickest way to create wealth and prosperity for both europeans and the vietnamese.
mr president, this partnership will bring real economic benefit to both parties, but it has a lot more to offer than trade alone. this is a time of great challenge in south-east asia, not least the anxieties over the south china sea. by working constructively with vietnam, the eu can help build a peaceful, prosperous region which is founded on free trade and mutual recognition of international law. we do acknowledge the progress that has been made by the government of vietnam in its continued efforts to confront issues like corruption, human rights and good governance. to that end, this parliament must reach out in a spirit of friendship and constructive dialogue to encourage and support that progress. unfortunately, i cannot agree with some of the rapporteur’s comments, specifically, for example, paragraph 33, and in consequence would not be able to support that.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, without the efforts of commercial plant breeders we would not have kept abreast with the challenge of feeding a growing population. having farmed since 1971, i have witnessed all the improvements produced by fertilisers, pesticides and mechanisation. in my opinion, though, the biggest single factor in increasing yields has been improved crop varieties. these provide the potential from which all else flows. for every successful variety there may be 10 expensive failures, and the winners must bear not only their own costs, but those of the losers as well. our commercial plant breeders therefore need the assurance that their work will bring significant financial rewards and not simply provide a shortcut to others who can quickly build on a novel feature that took many years to isolate and consistently replicate itself within a stable variety. in the past, it was usually safe to assume that by the time a competitor breeder had taken advantage of breeders’ privilege and brought a successor variety to the market, the original variety would have had its few years at the top of the hit parade, earned its royalties and been superseded. skill and technology, though, is now so advanced and correspondingly expensive that occasionally a breeder can produce something that is a step change or a defining moment in the history of plant breeding. the implications of this need to be recognised and catered for. having watched the eu make a complete hash of legislating on the topic of gm crops, i do not want this institution to spoil yet more innovation in plant breeding. i would like to see my own country, britain, take the lead in this field and consult with the whole agricultural industry, because a balance must be struck between maintaining the confidence of the breeders in the principle that a successful idea will yield a financial reward, but, on the other hand, the concern that the market will be permanently cornered and subsequent potential improvements discouraged. the debate then becomes a very straightforward decision on the amount of time a breeder can have the exclusive use of his variety. i believe the industry in the uk is more than capable of reaching a decision on this with minimal interference from politicians. a system may develop where the breeder of a high-flying variety may take the option of purchasing a longer period of purdah from the government, to the benefit of the taxpayer – a simple commercial decision, taken within agreed limits. we do not need to get involved in semantic arguments about the difference between a discovery and an invention. we just need to let the plant breeders have their moment in the sun. now, let us never forget that a farmer can always multiply up old varieties himself if he feels that this is a more economic choice, thereby waving two fingers at the perceived greed of big business. this inconvertible reality will always ensure that this issue remains rooted in the ground, the earth, the soil and the dirt, just where a seed belongs.
blue-card question.– mr cofferati, would you agree that one of the reasons that plant breeding is getting into the hands of larger corporations is the expense of registering and going through the whole process of bringing these materials to the market? it is only the big corporations that are able to do this. would you also agree that the farmer does have the option of multiplying up an old variety and waving goodbye to the large corporations? seed is the one item on a farm we can produce ourselves. we do not need anyone’s help to do it. would you agree?
mr president, when two patents were granted by the european patent office on broccoli and tomatoes in march, the implications of those decisions in the long term were enormous. over 300 applications for patents on plant material are currently awaiting decision by the european patent office. one patent has already led to claims of 900 varieties. european legislation is currently based on plant breeders’ rights, as has been said, and does not allow for patents in plant varieties. essentially, it is a biological process. however, through claims on the products obtained from those two processes, varieties are in practice being patented. patents granted for plant traits and varieties obtained through biological processes set a dangerous precedent. we need clarity from the commission on this issue. plant breeders need to be able to equip themselves better for the future, and i have to say, commissioner, you were less than persuasive in your opening remarks. i hope you do better when you wind up.
blue-card question.– would you agree that due to the mess that the eu has made of legislating over gm crops, this whole issue should be left to the nation states and to those who understand the land best in their own nation states? would you agree with that?
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the british have a phrase ‘the elephant in the room’ to describe a matter that is completely obvious but which no-one wants to recognise. in the area of breaches of human rights, the european union has its own elephant in the room and it is called turkey. i raise this today because, at every strasbourg session, we debate human rights abuses and here we are this morning debating mr halawa. yet turkey is a country which will receive eur 3 billion to stem the migrant flow, and nothing has been demanded in relation to its human rights abuses and standards. what message does that send? i should love to see something positive come out of our deliberations and speeches this morning, but i fear it will be more hot air and double standards. unless we actually resolve the confusion created yesterday in terms of turkey’s accession to the eu, we will not address the issues or the double standards that this chamber keeps on applying to cases like that of mr halawa and others across europe.
author.– mr president, i also speak in my capacity as chair of the delegation for relations with south asia, which includes the maldives. i would agree that the current situation in the maldives is of very great concern to us. we have heard the reference to looking again at the death penalty, which has not been used in the maldives since the 1950s, and that is a huge concern. the new constitution of the maldives is less than 10 years old and we are obviously seeing a process of democratic development with which this parliament had been closely engaged. but we are seeing things moving backwards, not forwards. key elements of a democratic constitution are the separation of powers, not least between the president and the judiciary, and that is not what we are seeing at the moment. we want an impartial judiciary, where people are equal before the law, where the law applies equally to everyone and where we do not see laws adapted to deal with particular individuals, most notably former president nasheed. we also want to see a judiciary which is improved. it is widely recognised by all political parties in the maldives that the quality of the judiciary needs upgrading. strong independent institutions are also important. we have seen the human rights commission there under attack. we are seeing the media clamped down on again and greatly reduced space for civil society and democratic opposition. this is the wrong direction of travel, and that is why the idea of sanctions is in the resolution to try to encourage progress in the way we wish to see.
author.– mr president, in 2008 mohamed nasheed was elected president of the maldives, bringing an end to maumoon abdul gayoom’s 35 years of dictatorship. nasheed stood on a platform of promoting democracy, secularism and the rule of law. nasheed did much to enact such a programme, as well as to address the long-term problems that this small island nation continues to face from global warming and rising sea levels. nasheed was replaced in what is widely accepted to have been a coup. today, gayoom’s daughter is the country’s foreign minister and his half—brother abdulla gayoom is president. not content with targeting opposition figures from former president nasheed down, the administration has resorted to arresting its own members. following what was allegedly a staged assassination attempt on gayoom, his vice-president has now been arrested and charged. as freedom of the media, expression and association are clamped down on, gayoom appears to be reconstructing a one—party authoritarian state, based on the model of his half-brother, and pandering to local islamist radical influences. today’s resolution calls for the european union and the member states to consider the implementation of targeted sanctions and travel bans against leading members of the government and their financial backers. anything short of this will fail to secure the release of former president mohamed nasheed and to bring about the change that this small country so desperately needs.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, the current human rights situation in the maldives is not a picture postcard. the crackdown on political opponents, the state of emergency invoked by executive powers, the reintroduction of the death penalty, and the disappearance of journalists like ahmed rilwan demonstrate that democracy is spiralling out of control. but it is not just the human rights of journalists and political opponents that are at risk. according to diplomats, the maldives are sending more fighters per capita to iraq and syria than any other country in the world. more than 200 jihadists – from a nation of just 350 000 – are believed to be fighting there. this parliament should be concerned that president yameen’s call for increased reliance on sharia law, and the threat of punishments such as flogging, risk legitimising rather than combating such radicalisation. in our last resolution in april 2015, we called on the european external action service and member states to issue warnings about the maldives’ human rights record on their travel advice sites, and to consider targeted sanctions should human rights further deteriorate. in the meantime, an execution chamber has been prepared for former president nasheed. now is the time to make good on our own words and to intensify european action for human rights in the maldives.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i had the opportunity to visit malaysia recently and was surprised to find that the perception we collectively hold about the country really is divorced from reality. yes, it is modern and dynamic, but underneath the surface of its western-style economy we see a state that is increasingly authoritarian, where politicians and commentators cannot speak freely. the spike in the number of people facing charges under the sedition act, and the recent passing of the national security council bill that gives sweeping powers to the prime minister and security forces, are prime examples of increasing repression. ironically, malaysia hosted the global anti-corruption conference in september. i would ask the prime minister: why not allow your own anti-corruption commission to conduct transparent investigations into corruption charges against you? why not allow the media to report on it and allow people to peacefully express their views in the streets? why not honour the pledges to repeal the sedition act and make sure security laws actually contribute to more security for people, rather than using them as a tool for repression? why be afraid of open dialogue with the opposition and civil society, including anwar ibrahim and all the academics, activists and bloggers facing charges? why not let the country’s brightest minds contribute to making malaysia a beacon for development and democracy? the malaysian authorities and prime minister razak seem to fear that taking these steps will weaken their position. the exact opposite is, however, true.
mr president, it seems most unusual that this proposal we are about to vote on was only announced at 19.00 last night in this chamber, when there were just a handful of colleagues present. i would like to remark how unaccountable that is, bearing in mind that objections and comments had to be noted with the president’s bureau before 20.00, and with just a handful of members from all political groups across parliament. i find that quite bizarre and undemocratic.
in writing. – ukip voted in favour of setting up a european parliament committee of enquiry on this issue. the committee intends to investigate the commission’s role in the scandal. ukip fully support anything which will hold accountable the unelected eu commission. however the committee also intends to investigate member states and national authorities. while we do not support the legitimacy of eu bodies investigating member states, it may shine a light on wrongdoing by our own government. ukip will oppose any recommendations made by the committee which call for more eu powers, legislation or harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ in the end, i supported the committee of inquiry. it is important to hold the commission to account, and for us to have answers to the tough questions about the emissions scandal – not least to find out what, if anything, the commission knew about it. i do, however, have concerns about any committee set up in this place being used as a mechanism to drive for ‘more europe’. it seems that just about anything is used as a call for ‘more europe’ here. any success is seen as a green light for further harmonisation, whereas any failure requires harmonisation as the solution. furthermore, i do oppose the shockingly short timescale on this issue which has been rushed through in a manner unbefitting a supposedly democratic institution.
in writing. – i voted in favour of setting up a european parliament committee of enquiry on this issue. the committee intends to investigate the commission’s role in the scandal. ukip fully support anything which will hold accountable the unelected eu commission. however the committee also intends to investigate member states and national authorities. while we do not support the legitimacy of eu bodies investigating member states, it may shine a light on wrongdoing by our own government. ukip will oppose any recommendations made by the committee which call for more eu powers, legislation or harmonisation.
in writing. – ukip voted in favour of setting up a european parliament committee of enquiry on this issue. the committee intends to investigate the commission’s role in the scandal. ukip fully support anything which will hold accountable the unelected eu commission. however the committee also intends to investigate member states and national authorities. while we do not support the legitimacy of eu bodies investigating member states, it may shine a light on wrongdoing by our own government. ukip will oppose any recommendations made by the committee which call for more eu powers, legislation or harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ in the end, i supported the committee of inquiry. it is important to hold the commission to account, and for us to have answers to the tough questions about the emissions scandal – not least to find out what, if anything, the commission knew about it. i do, however, have concerns about any committee set up in this place being used as a mechanism to drive for ‘more europe’. it seems that just about anything is used as a call for ‘more europe’ here. any success is seen as a green light for further harmonisation, whereas any failure requires harmonisation as the solution. furthermore, i do oppose the shockingly short timescale on this issue which has been rushed through in a manner unbefitting a supposedly democratic institution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome that my group has successfully led the push for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector. it is crucial that fraud is prevented, even more so when it affects our citizens’ health. we now have two lines of action to take: to find out where the compliance regime of the eu commission and the member states failed, and to implement the right measures so that in the future all cars will meet the imposed emission limit values also in real world use.
in writing. – my ukip colleagues and i voted in favour of setting up a european parliament committee of enquiry on this issue. the committee intends to investigate the commission’s role in the scandal. ukip fully support anything which will hold accountable the unelected eu commission. however the committee also intends to investigate member states and national authorities. while we do not support the legitimacy of eu bodies investigating member states, it may shine a light on wrongdoing by our own government. ukip will oppose any recommendations made by the committee which call for more eu powers, legislation or harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i supported setting up the committee of inquiry as it is crucial to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the setting up of an inquiry committee to investigate breaches of eu rules on car emission tests and alleged failures by eu member states and the commission to enforce eu standards. we must get to the bottom of ‘dieselgate’.
in writing. ‒ i regard the creation of a european union-level committee of inquiry as an attempt to politicise the whole problem, which is more of a legal one. for this reason, i'm skeptical of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted in favour of setting up a european parliament committee of enquiry on this issue. the committee intends to investigate the commission’s role in the scandal. ukip fully support anything which will hold accountable the unelected eu commission. however the committee also intends to investigate member states and national authorities. while we do not support the legitimacy of eu bodies investigating member states, it may shine a light on wrongdoing by our own government. ukip will oppose any recommendations made by the committee which call for more eu powers, legislation or harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted to abstain as i do not wish to see any new eu committees but i do recognise the importance of this matter.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i oppose this agreement in the first place, as it takes something which should be the responsibility of member states and gives it to the european union. i believed it therefore to be consistent with these principles to oppose the update which takes account of the accession of croatia.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the protocol to the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation, a technical measure to take account of the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i oppose this agreement in the first place as it takes something which should be the responsibility of member states and gives it to the european union. i believed it therefore to be consistent with these principles to oppose the update which takes account of the accession of croatia.
in writing. – i voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. ukip are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adjustment of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, on the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, on the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. this is a well-balanced report which welcomes broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, helping it to fight corruption, respect human rights and make sustainable economic, social and environmental progress.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as i do not believe the eu should be managing the foreign affairs of member states.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical document which accompanies the european parliament’s consent on this matter. this small document advances the draft protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, on the other, to take account of the republic of croatia to the eu in 2013. it’s a reasonable addition to the agreement, and i supported it today.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i oppose this agreement in the first place, as it takes something which should be the responsibility of member states and gives it to the european union. i believed it therefore to be consistent with these principles to oppose consent to this agreement.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. – ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation given i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social and environmental progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i oppose this agreement in the first place as it takes something which should be the responsibility of member states and gives it to the european union. i believed it therefore to be consistent with these principles to oppose consent to this agreement.
in writing. – i voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. ukip are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted to give my assent to the pca between vietnam and the eu. this should lead to a further deepening of our partnership.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this legislative vote on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as i do not believe the eu should be managing the foreign affairs of member states.
in writing. ‒ overwhelmingly supported in the committee, i have voted in favour of this afet resolution on the framework agreement in plenary to give my consent to it. i welcome broader and deeper cooperation in vietnam, which will help it on the road to reform and towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in addition to the fight against corruption, economic, social and environmental progress, while taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ this is a well-balanced report which welcomes broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, helping the country to fight corruption, respect human rights and make sustainable economic, social and environmental progress.
mr president, in this chamber we have got to stop lecturing third countries on how they should or should not behave. i refer in particular to the original text of paragraph 33 in this report, which was talking to vietnam about its visa arrangements and where signs should be displayed in embassies. this sort of thing is absolute nonsense. we need to recognise that third countries actually have their own democratic rights and their own sovereignty. i am making this as a general point, not just on that specific issue. this is something that happens far too often in this place, and we need to stop imposing our mindset upon other peoples across the world.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission. the eu has no right to interfere in the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission. the eu has no right to interfere in the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission. the eu has no right to interfere in the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ president, i voted in favour of the report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation given i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social and environmental progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ as a ukip mep, i oppose this agreement in the first place as it takes something which should be the responsibility of member states and gives it to the european union. i believed it therefore to be consistent with these principles to oppose this resolution. paragraph 33 took to the ultimate degree an eu desire to micromanage the affairs of third nations, to the extent of mentioning signage at embassies and fees for visas and passports. i naturally opposed this, and was glad to see that the original text – on this part at least – fell.
in writing. – my ukip colleagues and i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission. the eu has no right to interfere in the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal. it is a well-balanced report which welcomes broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, helping it to fight corruption, respect human rights and make sustainable economic, social and environmental progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal, which stresses the importance of comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreements in eu-asean relations and believes that eu-asean cooperation could be strengthened in various areas such as financial sector development, transparency and the coordination of macro-economic policies.
in writing. ‒ as a member of parliament from the czech republic, i am a politician representing a country with one of the largest vietnamese communities in the eu. given this fact and the historical ties between the czech republic and vietnam, i consider the deepening of cooperation between the eu and this country to be very beneficial. on the other hand, i would like to remind you that human rights violations are taking place in vietnam and that this issue must be part of the dialogue between the eu and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report on the eu-vietnam agreement on partnership and cooperation. we are opposed in principle to eu institutions signing international agreements on behalf of the uk. only elected and accountable national governments should negotiate and conclude international agreements, not the unelected and unaccountable eu commission. the eu has no right to interfere in the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as i do not believe the eu should be managing the foreign affairs of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution from the afet committee on this framework agreement that we have also given our consent to today. this agreement represents a major pillar for regional stability, progress in implementing international norms and social and economic development in the region.
mr president, let me take you back to 1990 when the then british chancellor, john major, proposed a european single currency, which was quite a novel concept at the time to many people back in the united kingdom. we then joined the exchange rate mechanism, which, in one sense, could have been seen as the euro, though without the notes and coins. we fixed our exchange rates and certain aspects of monetary policy. well, of course, unemployment soared and more businesses went bust than in any other two-year period in british history. we had to crash out of the erm and it took our economy years to recover. thank goodness we did not join the euro, because we might have suffered the same consequences that many of the countries which did join the euro have themselves suffered. mr major was wrong then. he recommends that britain should stay in the european union. let me tell you that he is wrong now too.
in writing. – economic and monetary union is a fundamentally bad idea because it places distinctive and different national economies in one straightjacket of economic policies. completing economic and monetary union (as the title of this motion for resolution wishes) would therefore merely preserve the problems to be fixed by the inevitable break-up of the currency zone – better to make that break-up occur at a time of the zone’s own choosing rather than have it forced upon them by events. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. – economic and monetary union is a fundamentally bad idea because it places distinctive and different national economies in one straightjacket of economic policies. completing economic and monetary union (as the title of this motion for resolution wishes) would therefore merely preserve the problems to be fixed by the inevitable break-up of the currency zone – better to make that break-up occur at a time of the zone’s own choosing rather than have it forced upon them by events. accordingly, as a ukip mep, i voted against.
in writing. – economic and monetary union is a fundamentally bad idea because it places distinctive and different national economies in one straitjacket of economic policies. completing economic and monetary union (as the title of this motion for resolution wishes) would therefore merely preserve the problems to be fixed by the inevitable break-up of the currency zone – better to make that break-up occur at a time of the zone’s own choosing rather than have it forced upon them by events. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this oral question as it is an outrageous attempt by the eu to monitor national budgets. furthermore, calls for a greater role for the european parliament when setting up agencies politicises a process that is supposedly advisory and therefore neutral. whilst i support democratic oversight, this oral question does not respect subsidiarity and infringes the rights of member states.
in writing. ‒ the euro area recommendations proposed are balanced instruments. the euro area needs to get back on track economically, that means not just focusing on some deficiencies of some smaller southern member states, but also on larger ones where the domestic demand needs to be stimulated. i recognise that labour markets need reform, but it has to be the right kind. it should be easier to hire people, not to fire. the priority has to be to reduce unemployment, and provide people with proper contracts and social protection instead of zero hour contracts. another critical point to address is the amount of non-performing loans, in the eurozone (but also beyond). more than eur 826 billion of non-performing loans are hanging as a sword of damocles over our banking sector. this needs to be tackled urgently.
in writing. ‒ economic and monetary union has been a disaster. it is a political project with no economic basis in reality. i therefore voted against this report. for some reason, failure (no matter how huge) is no reason for the eu to drop an idea! i note that the (then) british chancellor john major proposed such a scheme in 1990, and he has been proven wrong about this matter on every occasion since then. he is now entering the debate on british membership of the european union, proposing that we remain in the eu. i submit that he is wrong about that too.
in writing. – economic and monetary union is a fundamentally bad idea because it places distinctive and different national economies in one straitjacket of economic policies. completing economic and monetary union (as the title of this motion for resolution wishes) would therefore merely preserve the problems to be fixed by the inevitable break-up of the currency zone – better to make that break-up occur at a time of the zone’s own choosing rather than have it forced upon them by events. accordingly my ukip colleagues and i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the sentiments of this resolution that the commission’s recent proposals for completing european monetary union (emu) are insufficient to address the current shortcomings in the institutional framework of the euro area.
in writing. i supported the report, even though i have a different view on some issues relating to the euro. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my view that the czech republic should join the euro area after the citizens of my country have approved this step in a popular vote, a referendum. when that moment comes, it will be such a momentous change that the decision should be left to the citizens themselves. if this procedure is followed, there is no need to speculate about possible automatic derogations from the euro, as proposed today by the communist group. for that reason, i did not support this amendment.
in writing. ‒ economic and monetary union is a fundamentally bad idea because it places distinctive and different national economies in one straightjacket of economic policies. completing economic and monetary union (as the title of this motion for resolution wishes) would therefore merely preserve the problems to be fixed by the inevitable break-up of the currency zone – better to make that break-up occur at a time of the zone’s own choosing rather than have it forced upon them by events. accordingly ukip voted against.
in writing. ‒ european economic and monetary union is not something i would support and therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i would like to see the emu be more democratically accountable, especially as the eurozone embarks on further integration. despite being a part of the exclusive competence of the european union, there has been a move towards intergovernmentalism of the euro-area, especially with regards to external representation. the fact that the parliament has been excluded from any decision-making elements of ‘stage 1’ is totally against the spirit of strengthening the democratic accountability of the emu. while there is further integration of eurozone members, it is important, however, that non-eurozone members continue to be heard.
mr president, we all support human rights, but this report states that the eu and member states must speak with a consistent, single voice on such matters. a consistent, single voice interferes with sovereign national rights to set our own foreign policy. i refer in particular to three points in this report and the amendments approved today. firstly, regarding the talk of a definition of a new type of refugee – a climate refugee – we have not thought through the consequences of doing this, and yet the parliament approved it by a large majority today. secondly, quota systems for women in politics and democracy, how on earth – even if you believe that such demeaning quotas are a good thing – can you impose that on countries outside europe? that is nonsense. finally, regarding the death penalty, i personally am weakly opposed to the death penalty, but it is not for us to lecture others on that matter. it is a sovereign decision for nation-states to take for themselves.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip of course shares many of the concerns highlighted in the report regarding the violation of human rights, discrimination against lgbti people, sexual violence as a weapon of war and many other cruel and inhumane acts. however we cannot support calls for more eu action on the international stage. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the unelected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip of course shares many of the concerns highlighted in the report regarding the violation of human rights, discrimination against lgbti people, sexual violence as a weapon of war and many other cruel and inhumane acts. however we cannot support calls for more eu action on the international stage. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the unelected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip of course shares many of the concerns highlighted in the report regarding the violation of human rights, discrimination against lgbti people, sexual violence as a weapon of war and many other cruel and inhumane acts. however we cannot support calls for more eu action on the international stage. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the unelected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual human rights report for 2014, which sets out the state of play of eu policy instruments for advancing human rights worldwide and proposes ways to ensure the promotion of human rights and democracy through eu external policies and instruments, notably in the framework of the new action plan. it is crucial that we step up efforts on achieving internal and external cohesion, women’s and children’s rights including the right to abortion and the right for raped women/girls in conflict situations to be aborted, the role of women including in post-conflict situations, lgbti rights, ilo standards, the icc, shrinking space for civil society, human rights defenders, and refugee crises, including amendments for the setting up of humanitarian corridors.
in writing. ‒ i note three problems with this report, aside from the obvious point that the desire for the eu to speak with a ‘single, consistent voice’ is tantamount to removing national sovereignty over foreign policy: 1. it proposes quota systems for women in democracy. even if you believe in quotas, it is not for the eu to impose this on third countries. 2. it proposes the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. even if you oppose the death penalty, it is not for the eu to impose this on third countries. 3. it proposes a new kind of refugee, a ‘climate refugee’. i suspect the consequences of such a proposal have not been properly thought through, and could in fact lead to every person on the planet claiming to be a refugee in europe.
in writing. – i abstained with the rest of my ukip colleagues on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip of course shares many of the concerns highlighted in the report regarding the violation of human rights, discrimination against lgbti people, sexual violence as a weapon of war and many other cruel and inhumane acts. however we cannot support calls for more eu action on the international stage. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the unelected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and particularly welcome its recognition of the importance of additional measures against individuals (targeted sanctions such as freezing of assets or travel bans) in dealing with authoritarian regimes should dialogues persistently fail.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual human rights report of 2014 which summarises the state of play of eu policy instruments for advancing human rights worldwide and proposes ways to improve human rights and democracy through eu external policies. this is a comprehensive and detailed report, containing clear calls for improved external policy in areas such as gender, lgbti rights and the implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip of course shares many of the concerns highlighted in the report regarding the violation of human rights, discrimination against lgbti people, sexual violence as a weapon of war and many other cruel and inhumane acts. however we cannot support calls for more eu action on the international stage. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the unelected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution as there are good and bad proposals, some of which i support and some i do not.
in writing. ‒ with 69 of the whopping 420 amendments to the report tabled by s&d members, i am confident that the structure and the content of this report has improved greatly. overall, this own-initiative report from cristian preda, with the influence of s&d amendments, is a good analysis and view on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the eu policy on the matter. the issues surrounded internal (as well as external) cohesion, ilo standards, rights of lgbti persons, rights of women and children (including the rights to abortion), human rights defenders and many others were appropriate additions to the report.
in writing. ‒ this report contains many important re-assertions of eu commitments to human rights in the world. specifically i welcome the call to stand with human rights defenders around the world, who promote freedom of expression and human dignity in the face of adversity, and are often punished, imprisoned, tortured, or even killed. i would like to express my solidarity with their struggles, and commit to support them where i can. as well as the well-known cases of nabeel rajab and raif badawi, dozens of others could benefit from eu support, and i will continue my work with international civil society, activists, and international organisations in order to add my voice. i also welcome the report’s call to mainstream gender into all of the eu’s external actions, and into all of its work on human rights. this must come in the context of a robust eu strategy on gender equality. the commission must demonstrate its seriousness on gender equality through clear action.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip of course is glad that the violence came to an end and that the victims and innocents caught up in the war should be remembered. however the report goes on to support bosnia and herzegovina in applying for membership of the european union which is something ukip cannot support.
in writing. – this resolution commemorates the dayton peace agreement, which was signed 20 years ago, bringing an end to the war in bosnia and herzegovina. while the resolution is short, and primarily marks the 20th anniversary of the peace, it also notes some of the challenges bosnia and herzegovina still faces, including the further development of a constitutional framework, the need to continue to strengthen democratic structures and the rights of citizens, and the issue of the return and integration of refugees and internally displaced persons. while i did not agree with all parts of the motion, as a whole it is a positive resolution, highlighting the importance of building a successful, sustained and inclusive process of peace and rebuilding in formerly war-torn countries. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this rather bizarre report appears to believe two completely contradictory things at once. on the one hand, it bemoans the lack of progress by bosnia & herzegovina in progressing to a democratic system. on the other, it urges progress towards the same country's accession to the european union. i do not believe that it is practical to suggest both at the same time, although of course i do support the progress which was made 20 years ago and commend those parts of the report which reflect that.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip of course is glad that the violence came to an end and that the victims and innocents caught up in the war should be remembered. however the report goes on to support bosnia and herzegovina in applying for membership of the european union which is something ukip cannot support.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip of course is glad that the violence came to an end and that the victims and innocents caught up in the war should be remembered. however the report goes on to support bosnia and herzegovina in applying for membership of the european union which is something ukip cannot support.
in writing. ‒ the anniversary of the dayton agreement should serve as a reminder that a diplomatic solution is possible even to the worst of conflicts. bosnia and herzegovina and its people deserve a peaceful and prosperous future and the eu integration process is of crucial importance also in this respect.
in writing. ‒ the general framework agreement for peace in bosnia and herzegovina concluded on 21 november 1995 in dayton and was officially signed on 14 december 1995 in paris. the dayton agreement was instrumental in ending the war in the region which claimed the lives of an estimated 220 000 people, and produced around 2 million refugees. the anniversary of the dayton agreement should serve as a reminder to all that a diplomatic solution is possible even in what seems like the worst and most dreadful of conflicts. bosnia and herzegovina and its people deserve a peaceful and prosperous future.
in writing. ‒ this ill thought out report appears to believe two completely contradictory things at once. on the one hand, it bemoans the lack of progress by bosnia & herzegovina in progressing to a democratic system. on the other, it urges progress towards the same country’s accession to the european union. i do not believe that it is practical to suggest both at the same time, although of course i do support the progress which was made 20 years ago and commend those parts of the report which reflect that. in no way, does another member state joining the eu benefit the people of wales, and if anything, it will just add more competition for jobs thanks to the free movement of people, which is key to the eu.
in writing. – i abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. my ukip colleagues and i are of course glad that the violence came to an end and that the victims and innocents caught up in the war should be remembered. however the report goes on to support bosnia and herzegovina in applying for membership of the european union which is something ukip cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution. the dayton peace agreement represents a victory of diplomacy over war. however, bosnia has been held back, while neighbouring states have moved ahead towards the eu and nato. it is because some bosnian politicians exploit dayton, promoting old ethnic divisions and undermining efforts to move the country forward. bosnia and its people deserve a peaceful and prosperous future and the eu integration process is of crucial importance also in this respect. we on the outside have a responsibility to continue encouraging and supporting this process.
in writing. ‒ despite its limits, the dayton agreement remains the foundation of the territorial integrity, sovereignty, international personality and political independence of bosnia and herzegovina. in the two decades since the agreement, there has been progress in the country and the region, but additional efforts are needed in the field of reconciliation and democratic development and consolidation.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. ukip of course is glad that the violence came to an end and that the victims and innocents caught up in the war should be remembered. however the report goes on to support bosnia and herzegovina in applying for membership of the european union which is something ukip cannot support.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this agreement and see some merits but i do not wish the eu to be involved and would prefer to see nation states preparing their own agreements.
in writing. ‒ 14 december 2015 was the 20th anniversary of the dayton agreement. this anniversary serves as a reminder that a diplomatic solution is always possible, even in the worst of conflicts. the people of bosnia and herzegovina deserve a peaceful and prosperous future and the process of european integration is crucial to this endeavour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is important to remember the victims of the war, and to reiterate the eu’s commitment to bosnia and herzegovina’s development. there is no doubt that eu integration is the key to the country’s progress. however, i regret that my amendments on the importance of culture and education, youth and civil society as key players in reconciliation, dialogue and political and social progress have been taken out. i call on the eu to promote youth empowerment and participation in bosnia, and advance the role of cultural activists, artists, writers and academics in building cultural dialogue and exchange, and there must be significant investment in education for democracy, fundamental rights, and citizenship in bosnia.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are opposed in principle to unaccountable eu institutions being able to decide who we export to and the terms of such export. the only people that should decide uk trade policy is our elected and accountable national government.
in writing. ‒ i have certain concerns with regard to the export of arms, not least to repressive regimes with poor human rights records. however, once again this is a matter which should not be an eu competence. therefore, whilst there are some aspects of the report which i might agree with on a national level, i could not support it as a resolution at a pan-eu level.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are opposed in principle to unaccountable eu institutions being able to decide who we export to and the terms of such export. the only people that should decide uk trade policy is our elected and accountable national government.
in writing. ‒ robust measures for arms control are important, but this report infringes too far on the unilateral right of member states to operate their own defence policy and goes beyond the eu’s common position on regulation of arms exports. the eight criteria in the common position on arms export licensing are clearly expressed in non-binding language, recognising national sovereignty in matters of defence. the united kingdom government already employs robust measures on arms exportation, assessing applications on a case-by-case basis against the consolidated eu and national arms export licensing criteria. i will always defend the sovereign right of nations to set their own defence policy, and so i cannot support this report’s infringement on that right.
in writing. – ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are opposed in principle to unaccountable eu institutions being able to decide who we export to and the terms of such export. the only people that should decide uk trade policy is our elected and accountable national government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. current events including a conflict on the eu’s borders in the ukraine, the rise of isis in the middle east and the terror threat from returning jihadis mean a tight, well-regulated eu arms export policy has never been more important.
in writing. ‒ alongside my fellow labour meps, i voted in favour of the report. the current climate in the middle east, on the eu’s doorstep in ukraine, and indeed across the world has given rise to concerns about the availability of arms. this report promotes public transparency in member states’ arms exports. it asks for a legally binding eu export-control instrument and for a harmonised eu arms control policy that would reinforce other dimensions of the eu’s external action. we have seen european arms in the hands of repressive regimes, terrorists and criminals, fuelling conflict in many countries. if we are concerned about security, human rights and international peace we cannot afford to be soft on arms exports. a well-regulated eu arms export policy has never been more important.
in writing. ‒ i have certain concerns with regard to the export of arms, not least to repressive regimes with poor human rights records. however, once again this is a matter which should not be an eu competence. therefore, whilst there are some aspects of the report which i might agree with on a national level, i could not support it as a resolution at a pan-eu level. let westminster decide this issue.
in writing. – i voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. ukip is opposed in principle to unaccountable eu institutions being able to decide who we export to and the terms of such export. the only people that should decide uk trade policy are our elected and accountable national government.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. despite having common eu rules on arms exports, we still see european arms ending up in the hands of repressive regimes, terrorists and criminals, fuelling conflict. it is time to stop these double standards. human rights and humanitarian law, not profit, must be at the heart of our policy decisions on arms sales. in today’s new global security environment, we need to reinforce our principles. we need a truly progressive and transparent european arms export policy with stricter risk assessments for granting export deals.
in writing. ‒ member states must apply the eu’s eight—point code on arms exports more rigorously, particularly with the changed security environment in the eu’s neighbourhood. these trade flows are not in the eu’s direct security interests, and national political and economic considerations must not override decision—making on export licences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. current events including a conflict on the eu’s borders in the ukraine, the rise of isis in the middle east and the terror threat from returning jihadis mean a tight, well-regulated eu arms export policy has never been more important.
in writing. ‒ ukip voted against this non-legislative and non-binding report. we are opposed in principle to unaccountable eu institutions being able to decide who we export to and the terms of such export. the only people that should decide uk trade policy are our elected and accountable national government.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this as it seeks to control the activities of member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. current events including a conflict on the eu’s borders in ukraine, the rise of isis in the middle east and the terror threat from returning jihadis mean a tight, well-regulated eu arms export policy has never been more important.
in writing. ‒ a tough eu arms export policy has never been more vital. i back efforts to prevent arms getting into the wrong hands. i demand eu member states do more to prevent arms being exported to repressive regimes, terrorists and criminals. transparency in the eur 20 billion european arms industry is long overdue. the arms trade treaty requires an assessment of all exports to stop weapons ending up in conflicts fuelling genocide and human rights abuses. the unregulated trade in arms has had a devastating effect on peace and stability around the world. proper implementation of the un agreement starts with a coordinated eu approach to regulate the arms industry. as a human rights and children’s rights champion i demand that the eu do whatever it takes to prevent european arms contributing to death and suffering in the world.
in writing. – we abstained on this important, highly complex issue because such verbose eu legal resolutions – whether approved or rejected – are simply not the best way to deliver progress and prosperity on the issue.
in writing. – i supported this resolution which concerns a decision by the european patent office on 25 march 2015, which effectively makes it possible to patent plant traits even if they are the result of classical breeding – effectively making it possible to commercialise the natural world. the resolution calls for the protection of native genes and asks that they not become a commodity for sole use by multinationals. this line of precedent is particularly worrisome and could have a fundamental impact on food production and food security, as the holder of such a patent could block innovation in plant breeding, leaving hundreds of varieties threatened. i supported the text as it asks for an urgent clarification of the legislation in place, to ensure that biological processes such as plants, seeds, native traits and genes are excluded from patentability, and criticises the epo for following a line clearly not in line with the legislator’s intention.
in writing. ‒ this highly-technical non-legislative resolution has some positives and some negatives. the overall impact is somewhat unclear, and i felt it appropriate to abstain on the report as a whole.
in writing. – i abstained on this important, highly complex issue because such verbose eu legal resolutions – whether approved or rejected – are simply not the best way to deliver progress and prosperity on the issue.
in writing. – we abstained on this important, highly complex issue because such verbose eu legal resolutions – whether approved or rejected – are simply not the best way to deliver progress and prosperity on the issue.
in writing. ‒ this highly-technical, non-legislative, resolution has some positives and some negatives. the overall impact is somewhat unclear, and i felt it appropriate to abstain on the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ unrestricted access to biological material is necessary in order to stimulate the innovative strength of the plant breeding sector. undermining the innovative ability of the plant breeding sector to develop new plant varieties represents a threat to global food production and food security, will have a negative impact on european competitiveness, and will have a negative impact on measures designed to ensure more sustainable farming.
in writing. – my colleagues and i abstained on this important, highly complex issue because such verbose eu legal resolutions – whether approved or rejected – are simply not the best way to deliver progress and prosperity on the issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, as i am worried that the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal could have a negative impact on eu’s competitiveness and lead to the creation of monopolies on the food market.
in writing. ‒ a ban on the patenting of products obtained by conventional breeding techniques, such as crossing, is essential to sustain innovation, food security and small businesses.
in writing. ‒ we abstained on this important, highly complex issue because such verbose eu legal resolutions – whether approved or rejected – are simply not the best way to deliver progress and prosperity on the issue.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as the resolution is non-legislative and on a complex technical issue already the subject of existing laws.
in writing. ‒ today in the plenary chamber i voted in favour of this resolution. unrestricted access to biological material is necessary to stimulate innovation in the plant breeding sector. undermining the ability of plant breeders to innovate and develop new varieties of plants poses a real threat to the future of global food security and will have a serious impact on europe's competitiveness and very well may lead to monopolies by some companies on the food market.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course we share deep concern over the unstable political situation and killings that have taken place, we cannot support calls for more eu interference. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the seriousness of the situation in burundi, and i welcome the fact that this situation has been highlighted. i also note that the report is non-legislative in nature. therefore, i did not feel it appropriate to oppose this report. nevertheless, some aspects of the report are concerning - particularly in respect of the eu's role in foreign affairs which i fundamentally disagree with. i therefore could not vote in favour of the report either. it made sense, therefore, to abstain on the resolution as a whole.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course we share deep concern over the unstable political situation and killings that have taken place, we cannot support calls for more eu interference. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course we share deep concern over the unstable political situation and killings that have taken place, we cannot support calls for more eu interference. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ hundreds killed or arrested, thousands internally displaced, 250 000 in refugee camps in the region. this is the consequence of president nkurunziza putting personal gain over people’s interest, and the opposition doing the same in its response to the crisis. meanwhile, a lack of disarmament following past conflicts, combined with attempts to manipulate ethnic fault lines, risks leading to another civil war. what we need is an african solution that will be a sustainable one, but i am concerned about the lack of unity and vision displayed by the african union and east african community in terms of mediation efforts, especially given the fragile stability of the entire great lakes region which is closely interlinked. that is why i support the call made by burundian human rights activist pierre-claver mbonimpa – himself a victim of repression in the country – for the eu to decisively leverage its financial influence to put pressure on major actors in burundi and the wider region to convene an inclusive dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my fellow labour meps, condemn the ongoing killings and human rights violations and deplore the worsening humanitarian situation in burundi. we are calling for an end to the violence and human rights abuses. we must work to ensure that there is no further deterioration of the situation through political dialogue between the government and the opposition, working with civil society and ensuring accountability for the violations committed. we urge the security council to follow its resolution with specific measures to stop rights abuses. we must work to prevent further escalation of the conflict and further loss of life.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the seriousness of the situation in burundi, and i welcome the fact that this situation has been highlighted. i also note that the report is non-legislative in nature. therefore, i did not feel it appropriate to oppose this report. nevertheless, some aspects of the report are concerning – particularly in respect of the eu’s role in foreign affairs, which i fundamentally disagree with. i therefore could not vote in favour of the report either. it made sense, therefore, to abstain on the resolution as a whole.
in writing. – my fellow colleagues and i abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course we share deep concern over the unstable political situation and killings that have taken place, we cannot support calls for more eu interference. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, as it expresses concern regarding the grave security and political situation in burundi and calls on the government to stop the violence against civil society. the eu and the whole international community have to react to the violation of fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ growing insecurity, the lack of political moves towards reconciliation and worsening humanitarian conditions in burundi – a country that tops the global hunger index – means we should consider under the cotonou agreement the suspension of all eu aid to the burundi government. instead, the eu and its member states should re-direct non-humanitarian eu aid to civil society there.
in writing. ‒ burundi is facing another wave of deadly violence these days. not only this country, but the whole region, in the light of recent events, requires our particular attention and, of course, concrete support. the world community has once again failed to prevent genocide in the region, and burundi and other countries in this troubled region must not be forgotten.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course we share deep concern over the unstable political situation and killings that have taken place, we cannot support calls for more eu interference. these issues should be handled between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as it is not for the eu to get involved in foreign affairs.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the ongoing killings and violations of human rights and absolutely deplore the increasingly worse humanitarian situation in burundi. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution not only because it calls for an end to the violence and human rights abuses, but it is also greatly important that we seek to prevent a further deterioration of the situation. we need to encourage political and civil dialogue between the government and the opposition; political dialogues that bring in the wider civil society and ensure accountability for the violations that have been committed. i urge, along with my colleagues in this chamber, the security council to follow its resolution with concrete steps to stop these abuses to fundamental rights and prevent this conflict from escalating any further.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non—binding resolution. while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved. this issue should be handled through negotiations between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. – the virunga national park is a unesco world heritage site in the east of the democratic republic of congo, and is africa’s most biodiverse park. sadly, the region the park lies in is ravaged by civil war, lawlessness, poaching and corruption. irreversible damage could also be done to the park as a result of exploration and exploitation of oil in and near the park, particularly by british oil company soco international. this resolution calls for a diplomatic response to the challenges facing the park, including the economic and social factors that place the park under extra strain. it aims to protect and support both the integrity of the park and the endangered species in it, as well as the livelihoods and human rights of people living beside it and the rangers who work in it. the resolution also calls for greater pressure to be placed on companies that breach international laws and human rights while seeking to illegally exploit the resources of the park. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i note that this vote was not subject to a roll-call vote in the parliament. in the interests of democracy and transparency, i believe that it is important for me to highlight how i voted on this issue. i chose to abstain on this matter; whilst agreeing with many of the concerns raised within the report, the eu is not the appropriate forum for these.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved. this issue should be handled through negotiations between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. – ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved. this issue should be handled through negotiations between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i note that this vote was not subject to a roll-call vote in the parliament. in the interests of democracy and transparency, i believe that it is important for me to highlight how i voted on this issue. i chose to abstain on this matter; whilst agreeing with many of the concerns raised within the report, the eu is not the appropriate forum for these.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for measures to help protect virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. the park, which has been a world heritage site since 1979, must be protected from the dangers posed by oil exploration, armed conflict and corruption. we have called on the european commission to take action and devise viable strategies to help protect the park and to support sustainable development in the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. – i abstained on this non-legislative and non—binding resolution. while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved. this issue should be handled through negotiations between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as it calls on the commission to take action to help protect the park, to address the root causes of armed conflicts and corruption, and to support sustainable development and peace-building strategies in the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this resolution. the virunga national park, in the democratic republic of congo, has become one of the most dangerous places in the world when it comes to wildlife conservation.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the democratic republic of congo is very critical, not only in terms of the humanitarian disaster but also in terms of nature conservation. that is why i welcome the initiative and have supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ ukip abstained on this non-legislative and non-binding resolution. while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved. this issue should be handled through negotiations between national governments and at the appropriate and legitimate international level, namely the united nations. the un-elected and unaccountable eu institutions have no right to interfere in the foreign policy of member states or the domestic affairs of non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this as it is not for the eu to get involved in foreign affairs
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution today because this is an incredibly stunning area of the world and i want to see it preserved and maintained for generations. the eu is one of the largest contributors to the park, and this pays testament to our desire to see this area preserved. while the drc government does have laws which prohibit environmentally harmful activities in protected areas like the virunga national park, the granting of oil concessions to soco international is a source of consternation. there are suggestions that the borders of the national park may be changed in order to accommodate for the oil drilling operations to circumvent the laws which otherwise prevent this from happening. this resolution calls on the commission, member states and the oil companies who may be interested in exploring for oil in this area to voice their support for the current borders so as to minimise the damage to the environment here.
