madam president, europe is experiencing unprecedented levels of violence. i like to think that we all condemn violence and terrorism wherever it comes from. in greece, unfortunately, only in words and not in deeds. since the day of our election, the golden dawn meps have been receiving threatening messages. in our letter to the minister of civil protection and the chief of the greek police we informed about the incident and asked for protection measures for both ourselves and the local assistants working in our offices. unfortunately, we have received no reply. i report that on december 24, 2014, unknown individuals spray-painted threatening messages against our lives on the walls and in the entrance of our offices. the police just recorded the incident. on december 25, 2014, christmas morning, at night, unknown persons set an incendiary device in the entrance causing material damage to our offices. both the country's political world and the media covered up the event. we ask the european parliament to support the greek government in doing its duty and to finally put a 24-hour guard on our offices so that our colleagues and we can do our work without distraction. already the popular association golden dawn is mourning the two victims of a terrorist attack on november 1, 2013. i hope we don't have to mourn more victims and then say, "i'm charlie, too", in front of the cameras.
madam president, greece is holding elections on 25 january 2015, and this is giving various international media the opportunity to bring up the subject of the so-called grexit, that is, the forced exit from the euro zone. some international firms even offer rates of 25%. i believe that if we all - greek and european colleagues - are consistent with our obligations, everything will be fine, and i am thus responding to the concerns of some who link greece's problems to the euro. what are we supposed to do ? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we are efficient and quick, we will prevent negative developments in the economy and eliminate the chances of a so-called grexit.
in writing. the italian presidency is a monument of failure, since it has not even dared to question the implementation of merkel's austerity and the violent budgetary adjustment which has filled the european south with armies of the unemployed and the poor. at the same time, it failed to secure serious resources for the creation of new jobs, it supported the policy of socialising the losses of the banks, it did not question regional inequalities and it continued to support the illegal troika policies in greece. it is obvious that the peoples of europe have experienced the same problems and the same enormous social deadlocks during the italian presidency. the young people of europe continued to search eagerly for new job opportunities. but they saw no real effect because the famous liquidity of the european central bank never reached the real economy. small and mediumsized enterprises continued to suffer from overtaxation, while rural populations in southern europe saw production costs rise steadily and their products could not be sold at good prices. the italian presidency, which has created a lot of expectations with its great promises, has in the end, by its actions, ended up implementing the same failed recipe that serves the bureaucracy of brussels and german europe.
in writing. we are voting against because this agreement serves the interests of the eu without prejudicing national interests.
in writing. i vote against the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe: fishing opportunities and financial compensation, because this agreement serves the interests of the eu without prejudice to national interests.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the recommendation because i believe that it will strengthen cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe in the formulation and implementation of a long-term fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the são tomé and príncipe fishing zone in the mutual interest of both parties.
in writing. agreements should be sought which promote the development of the european union's member countries without prejudice to their national interests.
in writing. we are voting against because this agreement strengthens fisheries while preserving water resources.
in writing. i am voting against the eu-seychelles agreement on access for fishing vessels to mayotte waters, because this agreement will respect the fisheries policy for the conservation of water resources.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the agreement in question benefits both parties, while at the same time contributing to the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles with due respect for the rules of the common fisheries policy and the relevant rules of the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc) on the conservation of water resources.
in writing. agreements should be sought which promote the development of the european union's member countries without prejudice to their national interests.
in writing. there is a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and tunisia. the council is requested to take account in the protocol of the accession of bulgaria and romania. all member states must participate equally in the european institutions and treaties.
in writing. i am opposed to the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the ec and tunisia to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu, as: (a) economic association agreements with third countries undermine the economic stability of europe and the member states; and (b) economic assistance to third countries through trade with them serves only the interests of economically powerful states.
in writing. i abstained from the vote on the recommendation because i consider that the conclusion of the protocol in question to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european community and its member states and the republic of tunisia, to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, is not in the interests of greek fishermen who have already been impoverished by the memorandum's policies.
in writing. economic assistance to third countries through trade with them serves mainly the interests of economically strong countries without corresponding economic benefits for weaker countries.
in writing. i am voting in favour because i consider it particularly important to consult the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, in particular in relation to the balance sheet and the future path towards sustainable mobility in this sector.
in writing. it is our firm view that the cultivation of gmos should be banned in the eu in general. the very fact that so many precautions are taken against possible contamination by gmos demonstrates the enormous risks to public safety posed by the introduction of gmos. we want a total ban on them and a ban on all research into their development.
in writing. i am voting against report a8-0038/2014. it is my firm view that the cultivation of gmos should be banned in the eu. the very fact that so many precautions are taken against possible contamination by gmos shows the enormous risks to public safety posed by the introduction of gmos. i want a complete ban on their cultivation and any research into their development.
in writing. i am voting against this recommendation because i believe that the council's position does not give eu member states unlimited power to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory.
in writing. the cultivation of gmos by european union countries should be banned as long as they have not been certified and shown that their consumption does not adversely affect human health.
in writing. we reject this proposal because it shows respect for the provisions of the general fisheries commission on the protection of all marine organisms. the uncontrolled fishing of all living organisms without organisation and controls is wreaking havoc on the marine ecosystem.
in writing. i vote against the provisions on fisheries in the gfcm agreement area, for the conservation, respect and protection of all marine organisms.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report because it contains technical measures and establishes certain provisions on fishing in the area covered by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) agreement which are mutually beneficial for all the parties.
in writing. the protection of all marine organisms must be a major factor in any relevant agreement, regulation or provision.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr tusk, welcome to the european parliament, but i honestly do not understand why you and mr juncker, who has just left, are celebrating the european council of 18 december 2014. yeah, you guys finished it too soon. but what have you decided on this? you just exchanged wishes: merry christmas and happy new year. what is your position on the participation of the member states in the european investment bank? will you join us ? how much ? what are the criteria for allocating the investments? will they go where there is more disinvestment, depression and unemployment? or "business as usual"? did you know that in december of 2014 the european union and the eurozone had negative inflation, deflation? do you know that all the nobel prizes in economics are marked by the risk of deflation and a new cycle of recession? do you know that the world economy considers the eurozone the weak link? do you know that since 2009 until now poverty and unemployment have increased within europe and within the eurozone and the disparities between the north and the south, between the rich and the poor, between the rich regions and the south? the european central bank is not the only one to have a role in the world economy, but it is also the only one to have a role in the world economy. where are the fresh resources to make the juncker package - or the fund, call it what you will, mr verhofstadt - a reality? i have not seen anyone believe that leverage of 1 to 15 can be achieved in this europe of stagnation and deflation. only jesus christ has accomplished such miracles and jean-claude juncker is not jesus christ. more and more people are saying that we must finally put an end to this dogmatic, one-sided austerity, which brings depression, unemployment, poverty and also disinvestment. for six years we've been trying the berlin recipe. it is time to turn to growth, a new deal that will bring jobs, the recovery of the welfare state in conditions of the rule of law. in a few days we will be voting in my country, greece, and the vote of the greek people on 25 january 2015 may be a positive turning point for a democratic, social, job-creating and growth-oriented europe. my party, syriza, does not want to break up europe; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer is "blue card". thank you, mr coburn, for asking. this is the agenda of mr farage, mrs le pen. apply it if your voters let you in your countries. we do not want to see the eurozone dissolved, nor do we want greece to leave the european union. we want greece, as a member of the european union and the eurozone, to have no unemployment, no poverty, to develop; we want the rich to pay, not the poor. because in greece, shipowners pay four times less in taxes than their crews. this is the programme of syriza, and it has nothing to do with the programme of the extreme right.
madam president, it is well known that the mediterranean is the main gateway to europe not only for illegal immigrants but also for people who are used by international circles for illegal activities that offend their personality and violate their human rights. such activities include prostitution, child labor, crime, drug trafficking, and terrorism. as far as greece is concerned, these unfortunate people are put on old ships and abandoned in the country's territorial waters near the border with turkey, while being forced to pay between $3,000 and $10,000 per head. because all the illegal immigrants come from muslim countries, there are also fanatical islamists who come to europe to prepare and wage their holy war, jihad. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, on the subject of the fight against organised crime and corruption, both in the public and private sectors, there are laws in the member states and in european legislation to deal with the phenomenon. the question is whether the laws apply to everyone, without exception and without interference. i would remind you of the siemens scandal in greece. millions of euros went into the pockets of politicians for bribes, in order for the company to have access to state supplies and a selective treatment against its competitors. the siemens man in greece, mr christophorikos, who arranged the financing of political figures, as it emerged from the investigation of the scandal, was never handed over by germany to the greek authorities for trial - although three european arrest warrants had been issued against him - naturally protecting the german interests of siemens. in this way he also protected some politicians from the two major political parties in greece, as he confessed to the munich prosecutor in 2009 stating that he gave them grants to cultivate the political landscape. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but are they being applied as all member states should?
the european parliament's resolution on the fight against corruption has, madam president, in effect been left a dead letter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in addition to fighting corruption in the future, the consequences of corruption in the past must also be addressed. part of the over-indebtedness of many union member states is due to corrupt politicians, especially large multinational companies, awarding essentially useless public works and procurement contracts at inflated prices, thus burdening national budgets. the corresponding part of the public debt that is excessive and unnecessary is a debt that cannot be paid by the citizens through cuts in social spending. the european union must take its responsibility for all this and accept the debt to be audited and its worst part cancelled by convening a pan-european debt conference.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have not heard you mention the word 'cohesion' once. i have not heard you say a word about the danger of deflation. you have not once spoken about the alarming increase in unemployment and poverty within the european union and the eurozone. one day after the commission's decision to allow some flexibility in the implementation of the stability pact - which, mr pittella, does not make it 'smart', it just might make it less 'stupid', as mr pronti said - i did not hear you, madam prime minister, take a position. do you think that investment should be excluded from the calculation of member states' deficits in order to give a boost to growth? the theory that with harsh unilateral austerity, with cuts in wages, pensions and the welfare state, investment will come is tested for six years and has been refuted. investment in the euro area is 15% lower than it was in 2009. how will this growth come about? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i have repeatedly said on behalf of our political group that we consider it inadequate and that we consider the 1 to 15 leverage on which it is based to be unrealistic. but you here represent the council. you have to tell us how you support it. will the council ask the member states to pay additional resources, fresh money? how much and by what criteria? where will the 'juncker package' investments go? will they go to the countries that face the greatest problems of recession, unemployment, disinvestment? or "business as usual"? i come now to the subject of foreign policy. i was alarmed to hear a statement from the latvian foreign minister that you would break the stereotypes in relations with russia. what does that mean ? what does that mean ? the european union needs to find solutions to tensions through politics and diplomacy. we have an interest in defusing that tension. we must build peaceful relations based on the values and rules of democracy. as for ttip, apart from your strong support for it, what is your response to the objections to transparency and to those who disagree and say that as it is being prepared it will abolish pillars of european law for the benefit of multinationals? there is a need for a shift in the economic policy of the european union to create sustainable growth in place of unilateral austerity, and that is why we have heard nothing from the latvian presidency.
mr president, the old political world of europe, those who led the governments and institutions of the european union, like mr juncker, after filling european society with armies of the poor and unemployed, are now washing their hands and, like newly-apprenticed magicians, promising an investment package that will supposedly lead to growth. but investments are not made in a vacuum, but with funds that the juncker plan does not have. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, growth is not going to be achieved without abolishing austerity and stimulating demand.
question of the day: blue card. mr kelam, you have given us latvia as an example of how growth and fiscal stability can be compromised, but i am afraid you are unaware that latvia started with a virtually non-existent public debt, at just 8% of its gnp in 2007, and has now exploded to levels of over 40%. if it had started from levels of around 100%, the outflow due to austerity and the decline in the national product would have driven it out of the markets and made it impossible for the latvian adjustment to succeed.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the commission for its efforts in this area. the new presidency starts from utopian assumptions when it assures us that the six-pack and two-pack economic governance agreements of 2011 and 2013 allegedly helped to better deal with the excessive public debt of the union's member states. in fact, the total public debt of the 18 euro area member states increased sharply in the years of the crisis, from 83% of their gdp in 2010 to 95% in 2014, far from the maastricht treaty target of a public debt below 60% of gdp. on the other hand, the policies of severe austerity are increasing unemployment and driving a growing proportion of the population into poverty or below it. what we need to make monetary union sustainable is a general restructuring of public debt, with the responsibility and initiative of the european institutions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
"he saved others, " they said", but he can't save himself! the above verse from the gospel of matthew perfectly reflects the foggy situation and the unjustified ambiguity in the foreign policy and security and defence policy of the european union. we waste energy and money trying to save others, but we cannot or - let us hope that this is not the case - we do not want to save ourselves. we are dealing, ladies and gentlemen, with situations and countries outside the european union, but we have neither a common european vision nor a similar orientation, and much more, we have no ability to impose whatever decision we take at political level. we are talking about and pursuing a common security and defence policy, but we are wasting our time with ukraine, libya and mali, leaving burning issues within european borders unresolved. i wonder what our reaction has been or is to turkey's provocations and violations of the athens fir and the cypriot eez, that is to say, to the direct challenge of the sovereign rights of two member states of the european union. we just wave her finger and whistle indifferently. we have not, as we should have, demanded the restoration of the illegal turkish invasion of cyprus. we are obediently following the policy imposed on us by nato, ignoring the fact that the geopolitical interests of the european union are not necessarily the same as those of nato and that the threats which gave rise to its creation no longer exist. we have not prevented - by pursuing the vile policy of 'dublin iii' - mass illegal immigration and the movement of extremist islamic elements to and from the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i am very happy that the european union has become an economic superpower. the fact that we are all together an economic superpower is, in my view, proof of collective success and collective perspective. and within this whole, there are more opportunities for smaller countries, which otherwise would have been overlooked or could have been left on the sidelines. for example, if we weren't an economic superpower, countries like ireland, portugal, greece, cyprus would have trouble meeting their financing needs to avoid bankruptcy after 2008. also, the fact that we are economically strong affects our relations with russia. there is this difference of opinion on the ukraine issue, but i think that russia, after the fall in the international price of oil, which caused among other things the fall in its national currency, the ruble, and the entry of its economy into recession, will at some point want to stop funding a policy that puts it at odds with us. but i think we must do a better job of giving our policy strategic depth. i mean, why not fund the control and containment of illegal immigration? the french media are reporting that after the dramatic events in paris, consumption is falling, the psychology of the world is changing. there are malfunctions and economic costs. so it is better to cover a bill together, to find common policies together to prevent problems in each country separately.
madam president, we condemn the atrocities and recent massacres in baga in northern nigeria. religious fanaticism is driving the islamist group boko haram to extremes every day. so the jihadists' territory expands into africa and a new muslim caliphate is created, this time in africa, from the city of guzau to the border of cameroon. at the same time, conflict in northern nigeria is increasing migration flows to southern european countries and greece, which is receiving thousands of refugees and migrants via turkey. mrs mogherini, turkey has become the main route for thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants to greece and the rest of europe. instead of restricting migration flows through its territory, it ultimately facilitates them. at the same time, turkey is not implementing the agreement on the readmission of illegal immigrants to its territory. finally, turkey has not taken a firm stand against the muslim caliphate in syria. is that a coincidence ? i don't think it is.
madam president, the policy of threats, blackmail and collaboration, of cooperation with extreme right-wing elements, imposed by specific european and american interests, is responsible for turning ukraine into a social and humanitarian bomb. today the european parliament, the supreme democratic institution of europe, of the values of solidarity, freedom, democracy, equality and human rights, produces another resolution of fear. and i wonder: what kind of politics are we producing in here? what is the positive vision and hope we are giving to the peoples of europe for the european acquis? the cultivation of fear, of uncertainty, of insecurity, of cold war politics and rhetoric? ladies and gentlemen, in ten days we have elections in greece and its people, who have been impoverished and impoverished in recent years, are being threatened for their election in the most vulgar way by the political and economic directors of the european union itself. we here have a duty to fight to change that direction. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration.
madam president, 2015 will be the european year of development, as announced by the president of the commission, mr juncker. but are things as rosy as the commission is making them out to be? you boast that the european union is the biggest donor in the world. of course, you have not been so generous to the greek people, whom you have forced to terrible sacrifices in the last five years. you tell us that you are proud of europe's achievements in relation to the standard of living in third countries. are you proud of the achievements of the memoranda in greece? let me remind you of a few facts: 439,000 children in greece in the european union are malnourished and live below the poverty line, according to unicef; 37% of children in greece live in households with no heating; 7,500 suicides of desperate greeks. are you proud of those numbers? we are also concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been able to reach a decision on the future of the community. but this cannot in any case be done at the expense of its peoples. let's take care of our own people first and then everyone else. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, the threat posed by jihadist terrorist activity is complex and multifaceted. the groups carrying out terrorist attacks in the major european cities are not only made up of residents of those cities. they have partners and sympathizers in muslim countries in the southern neighbourhood of europe. if we want to reduce or eliminate this phenomenon, we must help the governments of these countries to get rid of the jihadists in their country so that they cannot come to europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not exposed to the dangers of the nuclear weapons. one of those countries for which jihadist terrorism is a threat is egypt. there, jihadists murder, kidnap and target christian clergy, especially greek orthodox monks from the sinai monasteries. the state therefore confronts this danger both by legislative and military means. the country's constitution criminalizes terrorism and human trafficking. the european union's cooperation with egypt will therefore help to combat terrorism there and make us in europe feel safer.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr jarosław wałęsa, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013 (a8-0058/2014) the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i would like to extend a warm welcome to the european ombudsman, mrs o'reilly. the rapporteur has four minutes to speak.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we welcome the presence here of the european ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, and congratulate her on her re-election. the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013 highlights the important work of the institution in ensuring good administration and protecting citizens' rights. we believe in the cooperation of the european institutions and attach great importance to the ombudsman's scrutiny of instances of maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union, especially at this stage when the economic crisis has led to the questioning of the european institutions themselves. citizens are now demanding a strengthening of the institutions of accountability and transparency at european union level, including frontex, the troika and the eurogroup, in order to improve the quality of democracy. at the same time, the millions of impoverished citizens of the countries which have been placed under fiscal adjustment programmes, i.e. memoranda, consider it necessary for the european ombudsman to conduct an inquiry into the troika's compliance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. furthermore, and following the relevant decision of the european parliament's plenary in march 2014 on the disruptive role of the troika, the european ombudsman must investigate the conflict of interest in the european commission between her role in the troika and her responsibility as guardian of the treaties of community law. finally, the ombudsman must examine the conflict of interest between the role of the european central bank in the troika, where it participates as a technical adviser and creditor of the memorandum states, and its mandate under the treaty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the cooperation we have had. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer is "blue card". mr etheridge, the role of the european ombudsman - i have been involved with this institution for many years as a professor of the european union institutions - is to be able to reduce instances of maladministration at the level of the european union and especially at the level of the commission. i believe that it can help to protect the rights of the citizens of the european union by choosing strategic areas and making specific comments. the ombudsman's institution is already functioning effectively, as has been shown in the past by the role played by the ombudsman, mr diamantoro.
in writing. we disagree because it wants to give illegal immigrants an extra tool they can use to get asylum, which in most cases they are not entitled to. but in general we believe that this institution works for the benefit of the european citizens.
in writing. i vote against and disagree with the ombudsman's 2013 annual report because it wants to give illegal immigrants an extra tool to exploit in order to be granted asylum, whereas in most cases they are not entitled to it. but in general, i think that this institution works for the benefit of the european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion, among other reasons, and why the ep voted against the proposal to instruct the ombudsman to examine the responsibilities of the troika for enforcing the austerity policies of the memoranda in contravention of the eu charter of fundamental rights and other primary law rules. the failure to monitor the activities of such extra-institutional bodies is a serious blow to both the rule of law and the european social model.
in writing. i am voting against the report because the amendments which i tabled as shadow rapporteur were not accepted and voted in favour of by the european parliament's plenary, namely: the institutions of transparency and accountability at european level, including the eurogroup and the troika, must be strengthened. the european ombudsman should conduct an inquiry into the troika's compliance with the eu charter of fundamental rights. 3. an inquiry should be carried out by the european ombudsman into the conflict of interest in the commission between its role in the troika and its responsibility as guardian of the treaties and the acquis communautaire. 4.an investigation should be carried out by the european ombudsman into a possible conflict of interest between the ecb's current role in the troika as a 'technical adviser' and its position as creditor of the four eu member states entered into a memorandum on the one hand, and the ecb's mandate under the eu treaty and the treaty on the functioning of the eu on the other.
in writing. the ombudsman must deal with issues concerning the eu institutions and related to the external and internal security of the member states with particular care and sensitivity.
in writing. nato has destroyed libya. libya was devastated economically, suffered a lot of material damage and suffered a lot of casualties. it is ironic that europe, on the basis of its neighbourhood policies, wants to help libya to ensure peace and order in the country.
in writing. nato has destroyed libya. libya was devastated economically, suffered a lot of material damage and suffered a lot of casualties. it is ironic that europe, on the basis of its neighbourhood policies, wants to help libya to ensure peace and order in the country. i am therefore voting against.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution because i believe that the people of libya should be helped to fulfil their aspirations to establish a democratic, stable and prosperous state, in accordance with the principles governing the neighbourhood policies for the southern mediterranean.
in writing. the eu's intention should not be to plan actions to escalate the situation in libya but rather to promote bloodless and diplomatic solutions.
in writing. the eu's hypocritical policy on ukraine will not find our support. the expansion of nato and its followers has led a country to destabilization. the eu's support for the coup government in ukraine legitimises violence.
in writing. since the joint motion for a resolution condemns as highly aggressive and expansionist the policy of russia, which it considers responsible for the situation in ukraine and a threat to the unity of the whole european union, my vote is in the negative.
in writing. i voted against this resolution on ukraine because, like the previous one, it does not properly attribute responsibility for the crisis, in particular by silencing the responsibilities of the eu and nato. it is also unacceptable that the attempt to outlaw the communist party of ukraine, in violation of the european tradition of political freedom, is not condemned.
in writing. i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution because i believe that it does not contribute to consolidating peace in the region of ukraine.
in writing. the eu must diversify its attitude towards russia and ukraine. a more positive attitude towards russia will produce more positive results.
in writing. my vote is in favour because we must support egypt to remain a regional power and ensure that it respects human rights in order to play an important role in the south-east mediterranean.
in writing. my vote on the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in egypt is positive, because egypt, which is in a sensitive region, must be helped to play an important stabilising role.
in writing. i abstained because the resolution is not balanced. i firmly believe that on the one hand, the important role played by egypt in the southern mediterranean region must be recognised and on the other hand, egypt should give priority to the protection and promotion of human rights and ensure that human rights violations are brought to justice by an independent and impartial judiciary.
in writing. the situation in egypt must be resolved through diplomatic means and every effort must be made to that end.
in writing. my vote is in favour because the soldiers in question were on a protection mission and were following orders. the european union must intervene to free them and for humanitarian reasons, since one of them is sick.
in writing. the case of the two italian marines expresses the serious violation of international law since they are being held without specific charges being laid. the european union must intervene to free them, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i abstained because of the enormous uncertainty surrounding the facts, which prevented me from forming a reliable and objective view of the actual situation, and i was not able to vote on the complex legal arguments put forward by both sides.
in writing. the eu must support the efforts of people carrying out missions to protect human life and safety.
in writing. we believe that the commission's programme treats the european as a number and the nation states as enemies. the policy of austerity and economic contraction which the commission is promoting is opposed to us and we consider that its programme, instead of solving the existing problems, is making them bigger.
in writing. on some issues, such as the protection of citizens and the environment, i agree with the commission's 2015 programme and on others i disagree, as the programme is based on a tighter economic policy and presents objectives that cannot be achieved under the current circumstances.
in writing. i voted against all the motions for resolutions on the commission work programme for 2015 put to the vote because none of the above motions for resolutions adequately and clearly condemned the commission's insistence on implementing partial austerity and violent fiscal adjustment which has filled the european south with armies of the unemployed and the poor. at the same time, the above motions for resolutions did not condemn the commission work programme for 2015 which does not allocate serious resources to increase employment, continues the policy of socialization of bank losses, does not limit regional inequalities and continues to support the illegal troika policies in greece.
in writing. the commission's programme is more of a wish list than a properly structured european union development plan. it does not promote ways of tackling the causes of the economic crisis and does not approach the issue of illegal immigration in its proper light.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because i support freedom of expression in turkey and condemn the recent arrests of journalists and the systematic pressure on the media by the turkish authorities. turkey should undertake profound democratic reforms that should ensure full guarantees of freedom, including freedom of thought, expression and the media, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, in order to end the persecution of journalists in turkey and to ensure the unhindered free flow of ideas.
in writing. turkey has committed and continues to commit crimes against humanity and any approach by the european union to this country must now stop.
in writing. we agree with the joint motion for a resolution. it is generally unacceptable for turkey to receive eu funding, since it illegally occupies almost half the territory of one member state, cyprus. we believe that turkey is proving every day that its place is outside and as far away as possible from europe.
in writing. it is unacceptable for turkey to receive eu funding, since it illegally occupies almost half the territory of a member state, cyprus. practices such as the recent arrests of journalists, media executives and the systematic pressure on the media do not make it worthy of eu membership. i therefore vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
mr president, unfortunately the recent events in paris and belgium, the daily attacks by jihadist terrorists in the form of armed robberies, kidnappings, rapes and murders, and the movement of 'classified' european citizens, who have in the end proved to be extremist muslim elements, from and to the european union, demonstrate the wrong policies we are pursuing in relation to terrorism. we have a whole host of treaties, laws, strategies and actions to combat it. but we cannot deal with it by talking. let us take bold decisions, let us use all the mechanisms at community level and, above all, let us stop the foolish extroversion of dealing mainly with countries outside the european union. we get so caught up in our own problems that we fail to face them head on. terrorism is an asymmetric threat and as such we must deal with it. the rapid reaction units we have set up, such as europol, do not have the necessary information at legislative and operational level. they don't have the know-how, much less the equipment and the intelligence base. the messages we receive daily warn of impending danger. our enemies know our weaknesses. it's time we admitted them.
in writing. the unequivocal condemnation of the criminal attacks in paris must be accompanied by the basic criterion for the search for the objectives and aims of these actions, that is, who benefits from them. the eu institutions and the political forces of capital in the european parliament are hiding the fact that the so-called "jihadists" are the creation of the us, the eu and their allies, who armed, empowered, organized and used them as a shock force in their imperialist interventions and plans in the wider region of the south-eastern mediterranean. now, as in similar cases in the past, they are methodically using the jihadists as a convenient pretext to promote even greater intensity of repression and its mechanisms, whose main objective is to strike at the workers' and people's movement and its action. the kke is radically opposed to this whole network of repression and, of course, to the adoption of new measures to strengthen it, such as the generalized dossier and the monitoring of everything, the plans to create a secret service of the eu, the strengthening of the secret services and repressive mechanisms, the restriction and abolition of basic popular freedoms and democratic rights. the committee condemns the measures taken to further crack down on migrants and refugees through the 'smart border' mechanisms, schengen, and the dublin ii and iii regulations.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr weber, i understand your bitterness because your friend mr samaras lost the elections in greece. but this is democracy and i advise you to leave the risk-taking and distortion of the positions of the greek government. the greek people voted against a disastrous austerity, which has brought huge recession, huge unemployment, huge poverty and unfair burden sharing because your rich friends in greece, through the fault of your political friends, do not pay taxes. and the end of unilateral austerity is the hope for all of europe. and we say here in the european parliament that it is time, as mr draghi said: 'i will do whatever it takes to protect the euro', and the commission and the council to do whatever it takes to bring investment and growth in place of catastrophic austerity, by reinforcing with public funds the inadequate juncker package and with the contribution of the member states and the council and with criteria for allocating investment so that investment goes to the countries suffering from greater disinvestment, from greater unemployment, from greater poverty. what happened in greece on sunday - and fortunately the commission and the council respect it, unlike mr weber - opens a window of hope for the peoples of europe. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer is "blue card". mr lucke, what you describe is what punished mr weber's friends, new democracy and pasok. but the solution, mr lucke, is not to return greece to the drachma, as you propose, because then the german taxpayers will lose their money too. the solution is a turn of both greece and the whole eurozone towards development with justice and with major reforms against the client state, against tax evasion, against the corruption that forty years the new democracy and pasok have created in greece.
madam president, why are the european monopolies welcoming the juncker package and the draghi quantitative easing? but why does it serve exclusively their own interests in the context of the expansionary management of the capitalist economy? it is a question of the european parliament's right to decide on the future of the community. the various advocates of the union, who have come together to support this mixture, conceal their basic condition: further reduction of what they call labour costs, reforms of wage and social security systems to encourage private investment, i.e. 'reduction' of popular incomes, transfer of taxation from employers to workers, generalization of flexible working. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a development for the monopolies and not for the people, who must not fall into the trap, but must organize themselves, counterattack with a view to their own interests, their own needs.
in writing. the eu is seeking to increase investment through the proposed european fund for strategic investments. but to invest in a competitive globalised environment, the eu must abandon austerity, forced fiscal adjustment and the impoverishment of its citizens, while pursuing policies to boost demand and increase investment in education, innovation and research. this means a change of model based on social justice, on the equitable distribution of the wealth produced, on the knowledge economy and not on the low-wage labour-intensive economy. in addition, energy security, low energy costs, low interest rates and investment in the real economy, with particular emphasis on support for smes, must be ensured. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but the european fund for strategic investments is not only not based on this production model but does not even have sufficient funds to increase investment. the leverage of capital sought by the juncker plan is opaque and inadequate, and it transfers the risks to the eu itself, its member states and ultimately to european taxpayers themselves.
in writing. this mechanism can and should significantly strengthen member states by helping to create an investment-friendly environment, provided it operates with greater flexibility and directly mobilizes more capital. the european parliament will be able to evaluate and monitor the functioning of the mechanism, thus enhancing transparency in its management. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment. i welcome the commissioner's statement that he is giving priority to projects in sectors and regions with the greatest problems, such as my own country. in greece today, traders and professionals are having difficulty meeting their insurance obligations. we need to shut it down and look for funds with immediate absorption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
mr president, the measures of the so-called quantitative easing draghi and the juncker investment package offer state money to monopolies and condemn people to poverty. the same line is supported by the new syriza-independent greeks in greece line, assuring that it will respect the anti-people commitments of the european union and nato and promote the interests of the business groups that support this government, cynically calling the poverty of the people "life". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the kke - and by strengthening it in the elections - will offer all its forces so that the people will not tolerate the government, will rise up to recover their losses with a strong popular opposition of workers, will confront the real opponent: the european union, the monopolies and their power.
mr president, i propose that the house should deal specifically, in a special debate which you will propose and the house will approve, with the situation in greece. i think that is necessary so that no one can express views which do not reflect the views of this house. i am particularly sorry that you yourself, mr president, went to greece without the matter having been discussed in the house beforehand. what are you expressing? your own views, individual views or the views of the house or the views of others? i think that the situation is critical for greece, and that is why it is necessary and necessary to have this debate. as i said earlier, the day will come when the greek people will win and i want to stress that those who try to prevent the greek people from restoring their national independence and consolidating it and those who try to prevent them from taking off the noose that the creditors have put on them will have their faces smashed. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i will first of all take 10 seconds from the beginning to share the anguish of my colleague, mr manolis glezos, about the tragedy in greece, about the need to support greece, because otherwise it will be europe's anguish too. i have the honour of being the socialist party rapporteur (the president interrupts the speaker to remind him that he must stand when he speaks) on the committee on culture on this important subject, namely intellectual property issues, particularly at this time of economic crisis. i will not repeat what my colleagues have said, but i admit that while some of the answers were satisfactory, they are still vague on the following main issues and so my concerns remain: what is the status of the establishment of this group of experts? what is the timetable for this, if any? what are the criteria for selecting experts? basic questions! what are the scheduled meetings? finally, and here again there are questions, what will be the framework for cooperation between this group of experts and the authorities of the member states? will there be full transparency?
mr president, the matter we are discussing is a very serious one. but the answers we have received from the commission are not clear and have rather complicated matters. intellectual property is a given that it contributes to the growth of the economy, it supports the knowledge economy that we all want to have in the european union, it supports the digital market and of course it supports investment in research. at the same time, there is unfair competition from third countries, from various circles which infringe intellectual property rights. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them into account. it is clear, however, that this area of intellectual property protection is primarily a matter for the member states and that there must be coordination between the member states. i think that the group of experts is acquiring considerable power and is limiting the powers of the alicante observatory. the european parliament must also play a role.
mr president, the internet is the vehicle for achieving the objective of the digital single market, a market which will open the door to an estimated 500 million potential consumers for european businesses, and which can increase the union's gross domestic product by 4% over the next 10 years, or by some 500 billion euros. the internet therefore needs to be as well supported and enshrined as possible through a global agreement; i think that the commission should be able to take a very positive view of the situation in the european union, and i think that the commission should be able to take a very positive view of the situation in the european union. support is needed on open issues such as net neutrality to maintain the competitive field for new innovative businesses, which are the ones that can bring back the lost inventiveness in digital technology on european soil. the internet governance forum has therefore, since its first meeting in 2006 in greece, made a very positive contribution to the dialogue and exchange of best practices. it is an institution that enhances effective internet policy-making, which is why i am in favour of its renewal by the european parliament, not only because we should send a clear message to the united nations but because we should, together and now, start taking the necessary steps to complete the digital single market, which is so important for our economy, by breaking down barriers.
the internet is known to contribute to the development of the economy, knowledge and, of course, democracy. but the issues we have to deal with are important. what do we do with the issues of economic power, because they've created monopoly companies, they've acquired a dominant position, they often abuse that dominant position, they control technologies, they control research, they violate individual rights. the second issue is also the role of the states. authoritarian governments block access to the internet, restrict freedom of expression, violate democratic rights, spy on their own citizens. so we have to take serious action. we're going to hit the criminal activity that's happening through the internet. protect the insult of personality. that's why the governance model must be open, pluralistic, participatory, with civil society and universities, secure and protect personal data. i therefore support the renewal of the mandate for the forum which must be given by our parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are safe and that the consumer is not exposed to the risk of contamination. that is why labelling is necessary. there are already a number of food scandals in the european union which have created a lack of confidence in the functioning of the single internal market. it is now clear that there must be full information for consumers, and in particular for the country of origin, on meat in processed foods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of foodstuffs, and it is not the case that the commission has not taken any action to improve the quality of foodstuffs. but we really have to know what we're eating. because we don't want to eat gm food. we do not want to eat meat from cloned animals. we don't want to mix beef with horse meat. this is why consumer information is paramount. because we want safe, quality food. traceability is therefore crucial for the proper functioning of the economy itself. this is why consumers prefer local products.
mr president, the recent blackmail decision by the european central bank to stop accepting greek government bonds in eurosystem operations is illegal and abusive, as it violates the provisions of european union law and was taken for purely political reasons, in order to force greece to follow the orders of the troika and the lenders, including the ecb itself. the ecb has now become a state within a state. it is supposedly an independent institution for the conduct of monetary policy, while at the same time being a member of the troika and a creditor of greece, with the result that there is a conflict of interest within it. the only thing the european central bank is interested in is to continue to speculate at the expense of the impoverished greek people by demanding that the greek government bonds that the european central bank itself bought at a 40% discount be paid back at 100% of their nominal value. but mr draghi should know that his ultimatum will not pass. the greek people will continue to fight unwaveringly against the troika for the cancellation of the odious debt.
mr president, the result of the elections in greece has shown in the most tragic way the deadlock in european politics. they have shown that europe's biggest problem is not economic but democracy and respect for its institutions. the greek people have cried out what everyone can see, that the policy being pursued is impoverishing the peoples and endangering the european edifice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with extreme positions such as that elections have no relevance to the policy being implemented and draghi-style blackmail decisions reproduce the impasse. it is a fatal mistake for all of us here to think that the problem is greek. it is a matter for the whole of europe and we are all obliged to take up our responsibilities and respond to what europe we want. the europe of democracy, equality, solidarity, dignity, the europe of the peoples, is not built on such policies.
mr president, in view of the informal summit, i think we should be concerned that in the european union we have extended freedoms, but nevertheless there are issues of identity, culture and religion which are the cause of conflicts, racist phenomena and terrorist attacks. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism, and this is the first step towards a common policy on terrorism. it is not that the european parliament should not have one voice, one resolution against terrorism, because this, with its unity, is the basis for the need for a common anti-terrorist strategy, a strategy which will also deal with the phenomenon in the field of prevention, which also includes education, and especially in the field of repression. otherwise we cannot control the phenomenon, because we all know that terrorism knows no borders.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the right to strike is the most powerful weapon of workers to defend their interests against employers and is explicitly guaranteed in article 28 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in fact, however, the european elites, in their quest for an ever-greater impoverishment of the world of work in favour of capital, are doing everything they can to undermine this right, as well as many others. their representatives are constantly and legally demanding that agreements be respected in the area of budgetary management, but they forget about agreements when it comes to the protection of fundamental rights, especially economic and social rights. a final characteristic example is the insistence of the troika, in the last negotiation with the previous greek government, to abolish the right to strike in greece. the troika demanded that a law be adopted which would allow a strike to be called only if the absolute majority of workers were involved, which is impossible, especially in the case of third-level national trade union organisations. the greek people, by their vote two weeks ago, gave a resounding message and a response, and other european peoples will soon follow. europe must remain true to the values and fundamental rights on which it is supposed to be founded, or it will risk being dismantled.
in the european union, despite the talk of values, in practice union membership and strike action are considered by employers and the state to be a crime. they're punished with dismissal and other punishments. in greece, most strikes are declared illegal and thousands of workers have been recruited or fired for striking. the european union has called on greece to restrict the right to strike and to legalise the lockout, which the european union recognises as a right of employers. the debate on restricting the right to strike, as demanded by employers from the international labour office, is being re-energized in all eu institutions. the monty initiative to ban strikes when they demand demand demands against the european union strategy has been postponed but is alive. two truths are revealed: truth number one: in all the countries of the union, whether in austerity or in relaxation, the anti-working class attack is intensifying, with structural reforms for the competitiveness of capital at its centre. the people are expected to react, and measures are taken to suppress them. truth number two: their fear is one: the working class, the organized people. no savior can save him. only his organization and his struggle for his own rights, for development for his own benefit, not for capital. woe to us if in history the struggle of the workers took the permission of their exploiters! the right to strike was won by struggles by the workers themselves. it will be protected by them and used for their own purposes. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
question of the day: blue card. mr president, as much as the right to strike is respected and sacred, so too is the right to work. how do you assess the phenomenon of minority groups in a particular political area barring entry to employee companies, often by force, and the result being that these companies are eventually closed down and everyone is left without a job?
answer is "blue card". we expected nothing less from the golden dawn nazis. they are instruments of capital. they have relationships with certain employers. they are financed to terrorize the workers, to work as contracting offices, as slave traders, to put cheap workers in the service of their bosses. these are the nazis. that's their role. he has always been like that, and that's why they must be condemned and isolated from the workers themselves.
mr president, the strike reveals two facts: it turns out that the money theory has no value at all. if the worker did not produce goods with his work, the employer would not be interested in the strike; he would say, "i'm going to make money produce goods". but he doesn't. thus it is revealed that the worker alone produces goods and values, and money only exchanges values. the european union must therefore not only proclaim the right to strike in greece, where the miners of serifos have been fighting for the right to strike since 1916, but also make it a condition for any state to join the european union. and if a european union does not accept it ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, once again in the same theatre, we are discussing once again the fundamental question of unemployment among europe's young people. and how much money does the commission have now? eur 1 billion to pre-finance the much-publicized youth guarantee initiative. this is a pittance, considering that the european union has allocated one trillion euros to the bank rescue. the unemployment of young people in southern europe is the result of harsh austerity. in greece, youth unemployment reached 58% because, while €215 billion was given to greece in loans, these funds were not invested in the real economy but returned to the pockets of the lenders. the european union's production model must change if unemployment in europe is to be tackled. the policy of forced fiscal adjustment and impoverishment of the people must be abandoned. so we need funds, not crumbs, to create jobs for our youth. because europe can no longer afford to have 7 million unemployed young people.
in writing. according to the latest eurostat figures, my country, greece, has maintained a negative lead in unemployment at 25.7%, although it has had the biggest decline in the year. at the same time, high youth unemployment kept it in second place in the eu, at 49.8%, behind spain at 54%. despite the significant drop in youth unemployment of 1.7% across europe, the labour market situation is particularly difficult for our young people, regardless of their educational level. they often end up either unemployed or with limited employment contracts, reduced wages and a lower level of social protection, or are forced to accept precarious employment contracts or periods of unpaid work. however, the allocation of €1 billion for the youth employment initiative from this year will significantly increase the pre-financing received by member states to tackle unacceptable levels of youth unemployment and social exclusion. we will thus help our young people to enter the labour market smoothly by providing them with education and training. our young people are the future of europe. we must act today, immediately and in concert. if we do not, the cost will be devastating for employment, productivity and ultimately social cohesion.
mr president, the economic participation programmes for workers are generally moving in the right direction. the first is that there is a work to be done. we must help to reduce the high unemployment rates, which are particularly evident in the countries of the south. in this field we all try to give our best. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to make a statement on the matter. the aim, i think, is to set some very basic rules. first of all, we must ensure that the participation of employees in the company's share capital should in no way be compulsory. equally, the wages of employees or part of them should not be replaced by shares; it's simply that employees, after they're paid, can choose to buy shares in the company first. finally, we propose that those who wish to have employees be able to be represented as a whole as a shareholder, so that they can effectively exercise control over the management of the company. in any case, our priority is to protect the rights of workers and to promote the best prospects for workers.
mr president, the subject we are discussing is of particular importance, especially after the discussion we had on youth unemployment. so let me make five points: first, the participation of employees in company decision-making contributes to the strengthening of economic democracy. secondly: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. this not only strengthens social justice but also creates significant incentives to increase productivity and to boost employment itself in enterprises. but why don't we see this happening in europe? the shareholders of companies want the exclusive distribution of profits to them. take for example what happened with the distribution of the profits of the cac 40 companies here in france: 50 billion will be shared out of the profits. fourthly, the issue must be dealt with at national level. finally, there must be safeguards, i.e. participation must not be compulsory, must not compensate for wages and must protect workers' rights.
in writing. besides the scourge of wage and pension squabbles and redundancies, the eu and its parties use as a charm the traps of integration of workers in the interests of the company and the system that is draining them, to disarm them and reconcile them with exploitation. the "participation" of workers finances the capitalists through the forced reduction of the workers' wages after a part of it, by employer terror, is withheld as a participation in a venture capital that does not share profits but only losses. in denmark, firms can reduce wages by up to 7.5% and use the withholding to increase their liquidity and capital adequacy. these are considered high-risk investments and employees can only claim them if they are profitable. capital promotes workers' participation and self-management in bankrupt companies, which were endorsed by the current (syriza-anel) and previous (nd-pasok) greek governments in the framework of so-called "social entrepreneurship", and transforms workers into small entrepreneurs of their misery, burdening them with new debts. it is the other side of the so-called 'national unity', that which puts the workers under the banner of their exploiters, for the benefit of the latter. the solution for the workers is not to participate in the exploiters' businesses but to take the businesses and the power into their own hands, in the service of the people's interests.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised. the commission has also proposed that the directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos be amended to include the following: as studies of data relating to car accidents and traffic offences show, the proportion of non-residents involved was higher than that of residents. this is particularly the case with speeding. the large number of violations and traffic violations by foreign vehicles is due to the fact that the various local authorities do not know the address of the vehicle owner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised by the fact that the safety of road users is not guaranteed by the directive.
mr president, the latest developments in the democratic republic of the congo are causing great concern to the international community, as the region is threatened with complete destabilisation. this means, among other things, that the provisions of the constitution on the holding of presidential elections, which are scheduled for a very specific date, must be respected. but kabila's decision to extend his term in office has sparked a storm of opposition, massive protests and bloody riots. many activists have already been killed. the existence of military groups and local conflicts in the congo have, however, a material object: the control of the exploitation of the congo's rich natural resources. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is the only force in the world that is capable of achieving the objectives of the treaty of rome. it is the only way to protect the women and children of the region.
mr president, the middle east has been in the grip of an undeclared war for 65 years. a war with countless dead and wounded, untold destruction and 5 million palestinian refugees. the un relief and works agency for palestine refugees provides relief and social services in key areas such as health and education. from a humanitarian and moral point of view, the service is doing a great job of maintaining a policy of equal distances. we have every reason and obligation to support it in every way. but if we do not combat the cause of refugees, we will be trying in vain and bleeding economically as a union. the cause of the problem is the state of israel and the cause is geopolitical. between syria, jordan, lebanon, the west bank and the gaza strip, lies israel. obviously, geography is the de facto constant that determines political-military moves and outcomes. the situation, however, is precarious and tragic, especially in the gaza strip. the israeli aggression is continually creating new casualties, new refugees, new disasters in the infrastructure, despite all the peace talks and efforts, israel continues the same dead-end aggressive policy. the solution is simple. let's give the palestinians what they deserve: a state.
the recent developments in ukraine have proved beyond doubt the wrong policy pursued by the west in this matter. the country is slowly being destroyed. the civil war continues, thousands of innocent people are losing their lives, while the government forces in the battles against the separatists are suffering heavy losses, losing territory, suffering defeats and have lost more than half of their air force. also, many soldiers are surrendering to the separatists. instead of this situation alarming the west and forcing countries to make an effort to defuse the situation, they are preparing to take new measures against russia and, in cooperation with the us, want to give the government forces weapons systems to continue fighting. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we must realize that ukraine is a vital area for the defence of russia, which will not accept its integration into the west, no matter what measures are taken against it. we must therefore find a way of working with russia to defuse the situation and to find a political solution, not a military one, to the crisis in ukraine.
in writing. in the arena of war where the people of ukraine are being bled and at the negotiating tables of the imperialists where they hypocritically talk about peace, the knives of sharp competitions for energy and other interests are being sharpened. it is the usa, the eu and nato that have carried out the imperialist intervention in ukraine in their competition with russia. the united states is now sending arms, nato, by decision of the ministers of defence and with the agreement of the greek government, is tripling its army and multiplying its military contingents and bases in the neighbouring countries. the committee calls on the people to be vigilant and condemns the unacceptable new extension of sanctions and the preparation and implementation of additional measures against russia decided by eu leaders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the kke denounces the industry of anti-communist persecutions against the kke of ukraine, aimed at banning its activities, the persecution of its members and executives. the measures against him and the nationalist cries are a warning to the ukrainian people and a signal that the imperialist plans in the region are intensifying and that the anti-worker attack against him is escalating.
madam president, we consider the functioning of the joint parliamentary assembly between the acp countries and the european union to be important because it is an important political forum where the representatives of the peoples of the two sides discuss and cooperate on serious issues: firstly, foreign policy, such as the political crisis in somalia or the situation in mali; secondly, issues with a significant social impact, such as human resources in the health sector in the acp countries or the social and environmental impact of coal mining or even price fluctuations. in addition, the joint assembly can and must continue its important initiatives on issues such as migration and the fight against aids and ebola. we therefore support the action of the joint assembly, because it is a powerful institution for strengthening relations between europe and the acp countries.
madam president, the report drawn up in 2013 by the european institute for gender equality concludes that female genital mutilation, this modern barbarity, is a global phenomenon. the report finds that there are victims or potential victims in at least 13 countries of the european union, including germany, france and the united kingdom. female genital mutilation constitutes a serious violation of human rights and therefore the risk of being subjected to it should be a valid reason for granting asylum or humanitarian protection. finally, eliminating mutilation will require a series of actions focusing on data collection, prevention, protection of girls at risk, prosecution of perpetrators and provision of services for victims.
one of the biggest social problems facing all the countries of the world and especially the countries of europe is the abduction of children. the ability of large numbers of people to travel to different countries of the earth, the increase in interracial marriages, and the limited parental care of children because of their having to work long hours a day and often in different places are the main reasons that facilitate child abduction. child abductions are usually carried out either to demand ransom for their release or to make them the objects of various forms of exploitation, such as illegal labor, drug trafficking, organ harvesting, even to be used as soldiers by various terrorist organizations in the middle east and africa. the abduction of children by their own parents and their transport to countries other than those of their place of residence is also notable. the effects on the mental world of abducted children are many and significant. more often than not, they are forced to live in other countries in a different way from the one they are used to, to try to communicate in a language different from their own and to be unable to dream about the future. for all these reasons, they feel insecure, oppressed, fearful, anxious, and lose confidence in the world. the abduction of children must be confronted and condemned by all countries. unfortunately, up to now, even in the hague convention, the problem is addressed ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, the accession of eight states to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important political and legal development. this multilateral convention brings to the international level the problem of child abduction, which occurs very frequently in the context of separating couples, and determines the competent courts and the laws of the child's country of residence. this is a very serious issue and concerns a significant proportion of citizens in the member states of the european union. as the cyprus parliamentary committee on human rights has revealed, many cypriot women married to third country nationals are living their own drama, as over 2,500 children have been illegally abducted by foreign fathers. so here is a grim example of why it is important to extend this international convention.
mr president, i propose that this house should hold a special debate on the question of germany's debts to greece, because a document has been circulated in which it appears that the representatives of the parties, without discussing it with their groups, have decided that there is no question. there is a question, both legally and morally. i don't want to elaborate on that right now. i am simply proposing and asking for your approval that there should be a special debate in the house on this subject.
question of the day: blue card. mr reul, you have spoken to us, as has mr weber, about the need to respect the agreements. i would remind you that the european treaties, in addition to the provisions on budgetary discipline and stability, also contain provisions on fundamental rights, such as the charter of fundamental rights, and that the troika systematically infringes these social rights, as has been established by decisions of the european social charter committee, which you, however, disregard. how do you think this issue will be dealt with?
madam president, mr weber, i understand your sadness that your friend mr samaras has lost the greek elections. i understand your frustration because a policy of extreme unilateral austerity has been defeated, which is hurting not only greece and the greeks but the entire eurozone. you represent a party, the csu, which is more right-wing than mrs merkel. but please stop this extreme inflammatory and divisive speech, in which you have not been followed, fortunately, by the commission and mr timmermans, who spoke very carefully about greece and the greeks, nor by the council and the latvian minister, nor by any of the chairmen of the political groups. i am afraid that you are much more extreme and divisive than you accuse the greek government. and to comfort you: all the latest polls show that the greek government has the support of 80% of greeks. and we demand a solution and not a rupture; development in place of austerity; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. in the eurogroup which is coming and in the summit we need constructive contributions to a solution of common acceptance and to isolate the cries for division and division, to perpetuate unilateral austerity. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue card". thank you, mr arnott, for the question. our choice is for greece to be an equal member of the eurozone with growth, with democracy, with social cohesion, with reforms. thank you for your advice. if you can convince the british voters to make you a government, then implement them! in greece we are implementing the programme of the syriza government. and one more thing: the british government held a special meeting, worried about the consequences of a "grexit" that was unlikely in my opinion, and for the british economy.
the summit tomorrow is preparing the ground for even tougher anti-people measures in all the member states of the european union, against the backdrop of the discussions on the negotiation of the new memorandum programme for greece. the negotiations are not about the interests of the people but about how the people will pay off the debt of the plutocracy, by whatever name the new agreement is presented. here many attribute characteristics to syriza that it does not have in its new government along with anel, because it adopts 70% of the measures of the memorandum that it otherwise condemned and assures that it will respect the stability pact that requires the support of big capital and a meager life for the people. the greek communists are fighting to recover the losses of the people in the direction of liberation from the european union by unilateral cancellation of the debt, with the people in power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, mr weber should know that his attempt to slander the greek people and the political parties of the current government majority is not going to pass. it seems, mr weber, that you have no idea of the people and situations in greece and that your extreme and divisive positions have isolated you even here in the european parliament. i would remind you that the troika decisions on greece have destroyed the greek economy and created a huge humanitarian crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greek people, with the result of the elections on 25 january, sent a decisive message for the end of the troika and the memoranda, the cancellation of the humiliating debt and the immediate demand for the payment of german reparations and the occupation loan. the ecb's blackmail policy is not going to break the spirit and the determination of the greek people. this is the message to the european council and the eurogroup. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 192 (8)) )
answer is "blue card". war reparations have been defined by the international conference of 1946. greece is the only country to which war reparations have not been paid. at the same time, germany, during the occupation, forced greece to give it a loan. all of this destroyed the greek economy. these debts are legal and must be paid: eur 108 billion in total, excluding interest. this is how international legality must be restored. you all say the law must be obeyed. well, then, the law will be followed in this case as well. german war reparations and the occupation loan will be paid. this is the reality. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, the issue of greece and the recent changes in the political arena have emerged as the top discussion topic in the institutions and in european society. for five years germany and its satellite countries had imposed the memoranda and harsh measures, had imposed puppet governments through their propaganda and had given and are giving special economic lessons testing the resilience of the greek people, and not only the greek people. in greece in particular, the long-term recession and the irrational fiscal measures have led to uncontrollable situations. the defeated germany, with its heavy record of two world wars, millions of dead and inhuman crimes, has declared a new economic war against its partners. anyone who agrees with her is good, anyone who disagrees must comply. the german end justifies the means. he's forgotten the worldly lessons he took. the german people will soon understand that it is not the fault of others, especially not the so-called lazy greeks. it is only a matter of time before merkel realizes that europe cannot tolerate an oppressive and robber germany, which constantly threatens and demands. the greeks don't want a germany that sends its agents to buy up governments, that doesn't pay its own debts, like the occupation loan and war reparations. germany owes us, we don't owe her. nazis and fascists are not the cadres and voters of golden dawn, some who are showing off their finger, look in the mirror. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue card". we don't want anyone to give us money. it has already been said, and by this very house, that all debts will be paid. but you have to consider what interest rates you've got, and germany and austria and all of you.
question of the day: blue card. the greek people voted against the austerity policy that was imposed on them against their will. now what do you want ? cancel his vote?
question of the day: blue card. mr president, it is necessary. mr. colleague, i want to ask you: do you know that the council of foreign ministers on ukraine adopted a unanimous decision with the constructive contribution of the greek government, which provoked the positive comments of federica mogherini? do you also consider mrs. mogherini to be an extremist? the independent greeks are part of the ecr's eurogroup. do you consider the british conservatives to be extremists? are you the extremist?
mr president, development and a programme to ensure it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you all know the situation in my country. 25 years of irrational economic policy based on free or cheap money have led to the destruction of productive capacity and not to the creation of a new one. and when the bubble burst, panicked governments adopted, embraced, accepted a program of harsh austerity, unable to provide their own answers. but they also implemented this tough program in the worst way, by refusing reforms that would hurt their client state, their clients, big or small. and i say it again: a programme of harsh austerity not accompanied by growth offers no way out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and these reforms will be carried out by europe together with the greek government, which is already showing signs of realism, moving away from the impasse of its electoral rhetoric. and i am not, of course, referring to the extreme right-wing component, which can only cause disgust, and there is no reason for the left and mrs zimmer to support it in this way. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer is "blue card". i do not understand the question, mr president, but i would like to say that i am sure that the european institutions are aware of the situation of the greek people, as are all of us, but they also know that a programme which ensures development is the only way out of this vicious circle. there's no one else, and that's what we're looking for.
in writing. we oppose the codification of all the texts, because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question, which means that we must accept them as they are.
in writing. i am voting against the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland because the codification of all the texts does not allow us to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question and we must therefore accept them as they are.
in writing. — on the agenda item named ‘safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland’, we voted in favour because in our opinion the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing, valid legal texts, without any change in their substance, which help to improve economic relations between the eu and the republic of iceland.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the duda report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, since the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission states that the proposal is merely a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the codification of texts should be an opportunity to reassess their content in terms of substance and not just in terms of type.
in writing. we oppose the codification of all the texts, because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question, which means that we must accept them as they are.
in writing. i am opposed to the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of these provisions and must therefore accept them as they are.
in writing. — on the agenda item under the name ‘measures concerning anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters’, we voted in favour because in our opinion the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing, valid legal texts, without any change in their substance, which will help to improve import and export control and issues related to trade defence of the eu.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the duda report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, as the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission finds that the proposal merely codifies the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. the codification of texts should be an opportunity to reassess their content in terms of substance and not just in terms of type.
in writing. we oppose the codification of all the texts, because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question, which means that we must accept them as they are.
in writing. i am against the codification of all the texts because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question and must therefore accept them as they are.
in writing. — on the agenda item under the name ‘combined effect of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures with safeguard measures’ we voted in favour of that because we believe that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing, valid legal texts, without any change in their substance. the combined effect of these measures will remedy market distortions on the one hand and will grant relief against greatly increased imports on the other.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the duda report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may adopt in relation to the combined effects of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures, as the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission states that the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the codification of texts should be an opportunity to reassess their content in terms of substance and not just in terms of type.
in writing. we oppose the codification of all the texts because it does not allow us to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question, which means that we must accept them as they are.
in writing. i am opposed to the common import arrangements because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of these provisions and must therefore accept them as they are.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘common rules for imports’, because we believe that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing, valid legal texts, without any change in their substance. these rules will help to protect the interests of the union and especially the interests of union producers, users and consumers.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the duda report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports, because the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission states that the proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the codification of texts should be an opportunity to reassess their content in terms of substance and not just in terms of type.
in writing. we oppose the codification of all the texts, because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question and must therefore accept them as they are.
in writing. i am opposed to the common import arrangements because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of these provisions and must therefore accept them as they are.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘common rules for exports’ because we believe that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. through these rules the union will exercise surveillance over certain exports and the protective measures will be introduced as a safeguard against unforeseen practices.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the duda report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports, because the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission states that the proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the codification of texts should be an opportunity to reassess their content in terms of substance and not just in terms of type.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we are opposed to the accession of other countries to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of gabon to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’ because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of gabon to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as many eu citizens are of gabonese origin. children with links to the gabonese community will thus be safeguarded against abduction and protection will be afforded to the children in question.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we are opposed to the accession of other countries to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’ because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of andorra to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as many eu citizens are of andorran origin. children with links to the andorran community will thus be safeguarded against abduction and protection will be afforded to the children in question.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance, in the interest of the european union, of the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we reject the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’ because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of seychelles to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as many eu citizens are of seychellois origin. children with links to the seychellois community will thus be safeguarded against abduction.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we are opposed to the accession of other countries to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of russia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’ because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of the russian federation to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as the eu has close economic ties with russia. children with links to the russian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction and protection will be afforded to the children in question.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we are opposed to the accession of other countries to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of albania to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’ because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of albania to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as many eu citizens are of albanian origin. children with links to the albanian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction and protection will be afforded to the children in question.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of albania to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states and to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we are opposed to the accession of other countries to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’ because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of singapore to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as the eu has close economic ties with singapore. children with links to the singaporean community will thus be safeguarded against abduction and protection will be afforded to the children in question.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states, to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we are opposed to the accession of other countries to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’ because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of morocco to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as many eu citizens are of moroccan origin. children with links to the moroccan community will thus be safeguarded against abduction and protection will be afforded to the children in question.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained in one of the contracting states, to ensure that rights of custody and access existing under the law of one of the contracting states are respected in the other contracting states. the convention creates the infrastructure and channels of communication between 92 states to deal with the phenomenon of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. we reject the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. i am opposed to the accession of other states to the hague convention, as it protects children who are victims of disputes between their parents. the convention provides for cooperation between states to return children to their normal residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction’. we voted for because the eu has exclusive external competence in this field, but the problem is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. therefore, the accession of armenia to the convention and the effective entry into force of the convention in cases involving the eu and that country is necessary, especially as many eu citizens are of armenian origin. children with links to the armenian community will thus be safeguarded against abduction and protection will be afforded to the children in question.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the hautala report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention adequately addresses the problem of child abduction at international level and is therefore an important legal and political development.
in writing. the accession of more and more states to the hague convention develops the appropriate infrastructure and channels of communication between these states to deal with the phenomena of child abduction by one parent and to facilitate the settlement of custody issues in the event that parents live in different countries. cooperation between more states is also promoted to return children to their normal place of residence in the event of abduction.
in writing. within the eu there must be a regime of political freedoms and protection of the right to vote and to stand for election.
in writing. within the eu there must be a regime of political freedoms and the right to vote and to stand for election must be guaranteed. my vote is for control of the order.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘verification of credentials’ because we agree in principle.
in writing. i vote in favour of the svoboda report on the verification of the mandate of the members of the european parliament referred to in annex i to the decision, because all the candidates elected in the european elections held from 22 to 25 may 2014 in the 28 member states of the eu, as shown by the verification by the competent committee of the european parliament, were duly elected, as the relevant electoral provisions of the national laws were observed, on the one hand, and the provisions of the act of 20 september 1976 on the election of the representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage (as amended by council decision 2002/772/ec, euratom of 25 june and 23 september 2002) and of the parliament's rules of procedure, on the other hand.
in writing. within the eu there must be a regime of political freedoms and the right to vote and to stand for election must be guaranteed.
in writing. we vote against because it gives all member states the possibility of accessing the personal data of citizens of other member states.
in writing. i am voting against the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences, because it allows all member states to access the personal data of citizens of other member states.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences’ because we believe that this cross-border exchange of information will help to ensure a high level of protection for all road users in the union, by facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences, and thereby facilitating the enforcement of sanctions, where those offences are committed with a vehicle registered in a member state other than the member state in which the offence took place.
in writing. i vote in favour of the sender report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences, as this report takes measures both to reduce road accidents and to punish reckless drivers.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the proposal for a directive on the 'cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences', because behind the prevention of road accidents and road safety, there is the creation of cross-border databases with a wealth of data that constitute another system of monitoring, supervision and control of workers. these are the new mechanisms that are being used to shield the bourgeois state and the power of capital. the proposal for a directive is also part of the effort to promote uniform control rules in the eu in the name of transport safety. but these standards and specifications are being shaped by the eu in the interests of the profits of business groups, such as the car industry, motorway construction groups, etc., while they are exploited and operate as another field of competition for businesses, to the detriment of real popular interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. drivers who commit traffic offences should be checked. however, the cross-border exchange of information between countries is a sensitive issue in terms of the handling of citizens' personal data and requires delicate handling.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism (cort) has voted against the proposal for a directive on the 'cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences', because behind the prevention of road accidents and road safety lies the creation of cross-border databases with a wealth of data that constitute another system of monitoring, supervision and control of workers. these are the new mechanisms that are being used to shield the bourgeois state and the power of capital. the proposal for a directive is also part of the effort to promote uniform control rules in the eu in the name of transport safety. but these standards and specifications are being shaped by the eu in the interests of the profits of business groups, such as the car industry, motorway construction groups, etc., while they are exploited and operate as another field of competition for businesses, to the detriment of real popular interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the new fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol to it promote the interests of both parties.
in writing. the new fisheries collection agreement and protocol promote the interests of both parties, which is why i am voting in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a fisheries partnership in the field of sustainable fisheries between the eu and senegal.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal’ because we believe that opportunities are given for the senegalese economy to prosper from a better exploitation of the stocks available, in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry and that the new agreement and the protocol are in both parties’ interests.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the nicolai recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of a fisheries partnership agreement in the field of sustainable fisheries between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol, on the one hand because the new agreement with senegal contains detailed clauses on the suspension of the application and/or termination of the protocol, such as article 13 on human rights violations and article 14 on non-compliance with the obligations of the contracting parties to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and on the other hand because this recommendation calls on the commission to submit annual reports to parliament on the implementation of the agreement, in particular on the multiannual programme and the detailed implementation protocol referred to in article 4.
in writing. the new fisheries collective agreement and the protocol promote the interests of both parties.
in writing. the illegal activity of eu member states in the use of torture and participation in the cia's secret detention and extradition programme must be condemned and eradicated.
in writing. i am voting against the resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia, because the illegal activity of eu member states in the use of torture and participation in the cia's secret detention and extradition programme must be condemned and this phenomenon must be eradicated.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘us senate report on the use of torture by the cia’ because we condemn gruesome interrogation practices, the violent methods applied by the cia and torture.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia because, among other things, in this proposal the european parliament clearly and unequivocally states that national security and counter-terrorism policies are not exempt from the principle of accountability and that there can be no impunity for violations of international law and human rights.
in writing. the joint resolution, behind the condemnation of the cia's horrific torture of 'terror suspects', attempts to obscure the responsibilities of the us government, as well as the governments of eu member states, who cooperated with us intelligence services, in kidnappings, illegal detentions and the handing over of persons to the cia. it attributes the torture and crimes to alleged arbitrariness of the cia and the secret services of eu member states, even to alleged corruption and bribery of state officials and agents, thus concealing the obvious fact that they were committed on the orders of governments, by state mechanisms of the bourgeois state that is deeply hostile to the people and acts to protect the power of the ruling class. the resolution also mentions that torture did not lead to the extraction of information, that is, it was... ineffective! torture, kidnapping and murder by the secret services of the usa, the eu and its member states are components of bourgeois power and its state. the peoples will wipe them out completely in their struggle against their monopolies, their associations and their power.
in writing. the illegal activity of eu member states in the use of torture and participation in the cia's secret detention and extradition programme must be condemned and eradicated.
in writing. the joint resolution, behind the condemnation of the cia's horrific torture of 'terror suspects', attempts to obscure the responsibilities of the us government, as well as the governments of eu member states, who cooperated with us intelligence services, in kidnappings, illegal detentions and renditions of persons to the cia. it attributes the torture and crimes to alleged arbitrariness of the cia and the secret services of eu member states, even to alleged corruption and bribery of state officials and agents, thus concealing the obvious fact that they were committed on the orders of governments, by state mechanisms of the bourgeois state that is deeply hostile to the people and acts to protect the power of the ruling class. the resolution also mentions that torture did not lead to the extraction of information, that is, it was... ineffective! torture, kidnapping and murder by the secret services of the usa, the eu and its member states are components of bourgeois power and its state. the peoples will wipe them out completely in their struggle against their monopolies, their associations and their power.
in writing. we are voting against because we believe that these measures are not moving in the right direction. · on the contrary, while they introduce too many restrictions to the detriment of the citizens of europe, they do not really limit the very real danger of terrorism. the union has so far failed to control member states so that they do not restrict the application of such measures to terrorist organisations only.
in writing. i am voting against the anti-terrorism measures because they are not moving in the right direction. on the contrary, while they adopt too many restrictions to the detriment of the citizens of europe, they do not really limit the very real danger of terrorism. the union has also so far failed to control member states from restricting the application of such measures to terrorist organisations only.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘anti-terrorism measures’ because we express our firm opposition to the use of drones for extrajudicial killings of terror suspects, and we call for more transparency and accountability regarding the use of drones, including through an eu common position formalising a legal framework for the use of drones.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on counter-terrorism measures because the european parliament clearly and unequivocally states that security is one of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and that fundamental rights, civil liberties and proportionality are essential parameters for the success of counter-terrorism policies.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the unacceptable joint resolution of the people's party, social democrats, liberals and conservatives-reformists because, using the pretext of terrorism, it calls for the intensification and multiplication of repressive measures and the strengthening of the already complex national and eu repression mechanisms that have been imposed: limitation and abolition of basic democratic rights and popular freedoms, generalization of the passenger file in air transport (pnr), strengthening of cooperation between the secret services and repression mechanisms of the member states and the eu, a plan linking the repression of the eu to the internal borders of the member states of the north-east mediterranean region, with particular emphasis on the south african region. the european council, with the support of the syriza-annel government, has adopted all the above unacceptable and dangerous decisions. by identifying the 'crushing of terrorism' with action against 'radicalisation', 'violent extremism' and 'violent ideologies', which constitutes the eu's 'counter-terrorism policy', the workers' movement and its actions are targeted, which is the real aim of the whole vast web of repression that is being developed in the eu and its member states to undermine the power of monopolies.
in writing. countering terrorism requires careful handling and a balance between the protection of privacy and freedom of movement and action of individuals on the one hand and the security of society on the other. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of terrorism and to prevent the spread of terrorism.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the unacceptable joint resolution of the people's party, social democrats, liberals and conservatives-reformists because, using the pretext of terrorism, it calls for the intensification and multiplication of repressive measures and the strengthening of the already complex national and eu repression mechanisms that have been imposed: limitation and abolition of basic democratic rights and popular freedoms, generalization of the passenger file in air transport (pnr), strengthening of cooperation between the secret services and repression mechanisms of the member states and the eu, a plan linking the repression of the eu to the internal borders of the member states of the north-east mediterranean region, with particular emphasis on the south african region. the european council, with the support of the syriza-annel government, has adopted all the above unacceptable and dangerous decisions. by identifying the 'crushing of terrorism' with action against 'radicalisation', 'violent extremism' and 'violent ideologies' which constitutes the eu's 'counter-terrorism policy', the labour movement and its actions are targeted, which is the real aim of the whole vast web of repression being developed in the eu and its member states to undermine the power of monopolies.
in writing. stresses the need to ensure an open and independent internet as a global commons, along with future non-discriminatory access to knowledge, based on stakeholder initiatives and needs, and freedom of expression, and stresses the importance of continuing efforts to ensure the legal protection of net neutrality.
in writing. i am voting in favour of renewing the mandate of the internet governance forum because it highlights the need to improve internet access globally and underlines the need to ensure an open and independent internet as a global commons, along with future non-discriminatory access to knowledge, based on stakeholder initiatives and needs, and freedom of expression.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum’ because we believe that fundamental freedoms and human rights are not negotiable and must be protected both online and offline.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum because criminal activity on the internet must be tackled and because both personal integrity and personal data must be protected. for this reason, the model of internet governance must be open, pluralistic, participatory, with civil society and academia playing an important role.
in writing. improving access to the internet and ensuring an open and independent internet as a common good, as well as future non-discriminatory access to knowledge, based on stakeholder initiatives and needs, and freedom of expression, is needed at global level.
in writing. the objective of the internet governance forum is to promote public debate on internet transparency and governance and to propose policies for the better functioning of the internet internationally, with the key objective of maximising access to the internet for citizens. the decision on his renewal will be taken by the un general assembly in 2015. the european parliament participates formally in its work, making a substantial contribution to democratic dialogue, promoting european values and enhancing the diversity of its governance. the contribution of the internet economy to european gdp is expected to increase until 2016. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules. the key objective of all actors involved is the qualitative participation of civil society in it. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the proposal to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum.
in writing. we reject this proposal because we believe it provides the guarantees for consumer protection.
in writing. i am voting against the proposal for country of origin labelling for meat in processed foods because i believe it is a resolution that moves in the direction of consumer protection.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘country of origin labelling for meat ingredients in processed food’ because we want to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the country of origin labelling of meat in processed foodstuffs, because labelling and enhancing the safety and quality of meat are necessary in order to prevent the use of meat from cloned animals. moreover, labelling cannot conceal any mixing of beef with horse meat, as has been found to have been the case in several eu food scandals which have resulted in a lack of confidence in the functioning of the single internal market.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament points out that simply calling on the commission, as stated in the resolution, is not enough. it calls for the immediate mandatory indication of the place of origin of all meat, whether fresh or used as an ingredient in other foods, with severe penalties for the undertakings, without any conditions, particularly as regards the costs to the undertakings. it categorically rejects the shifting of any costs to consumers, which will affect the ordinary families, who will pay with increased food prices even the formal obligations of the enterprises to protect the public health, which are also systematically trampled for their profit. as long as monopolies dominate the economy and power, they control the entire food chain. any measures and controls will always prove ineffective, because in the system of capitalist exploitation the health and food security of workers will always be sacrificed on the altar of the profits of the business groups that are at all costs meant to protect all the institutions of the eu and the governments of its member states. measures that really ensure quality, healthy, safe and cheap food for the people require the break and the dismantling of the eu and the power of the monopoly groups it serves.
in writing. the labelling of the origin of meat used as an ingredient in food helps to ensure better traceability throughout the food supply chain and helps, by taking other factors into account, to better assess the products purchased by the consumer.
in writing. the specific motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament on the country of origin labelling of meat in processed foods, which i voted in favour of, has as its priority the better information of the consumer, but also the promotion of the quality of products for the benefit of producers. consumer safety is a fundamental and non-negotiable priority of the european family. as indicated in a 2013 consumer survey by the food chain evaluation consortium, more than 90% of consumers surveyed consider it important to indicate the origin of products, both meat and the various types of processed meat products.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament points out that simply calling on the commission, as stated in the resolution, is not enough. it calls for the immediate mandatory indication of the place of origin of all meat, whether fresh or used as an ingredient in other foods, with severe penalties for the undertakings, without any conditions, particularly as regards the costs to the undertakings. it categorically rejects the shifting of any costs to consumers, which will affect the ordinary families, who will pay with increased food prices even the formal obligations of the enterprises to protect the public health, which are also systematically trampled for their profit. as long as monopolies dominate the economy and power, they control the entire food chain. any measures and controls will always prove ineffective, because in the system of capitalist exploitation the health and food security of workers will always be sacrificed on the altar of the profits of the corporate groups, which are at all costs designed to protect all the institutions of the eu and the governments of its member states. measures to really ensure quality, healthy, safe and cheap food for the people require the break and the dismantling of the eu and the power of the monopoly groups it serves.
in writing. i am opposed to this resolution and i am voting against it because it is a typical example of cultural imperialism and because the union gives to countries in need but also asks them to change their customs and customs in order to give to them.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title «’the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly’ because we believe that collaboration between states is beneficial for all parties.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the goerens report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, because this assembly is an important political forum where representatives of the peoples of both the eu and acp states discuss and cooperate on serious foreign policy issues, such as the political crisis in somalia or the situation in mali, as well as on issues with a significant social impact, such as human resources in the health sector in the acp countries or the social and environmental impact of coal mines in the acp countries.
in writing. any approach by the eu to third countries or their organisations, in the broad sense, must be designed and implemented on the basis of respect for their culture and civilisation, customs and traditions, always in conjunction with their specificities, with a view to their sustainable social and economic development.
on 22 january, the resignation of the western-backed government of president hadi and the seizure of power by houthi rebels brought an end to a civil war that had been raging in yemen since 2004. but there is a clear danger of further hostilities in the form of a clash between sunnis who supported president hadi and shiites who support the houthis. the situation in yemen is a matter of legitimate concern to the european union, because this country, in addition to its strategic geographical importance, is considered to be the centre of al qaeda in the arabian peninsula. that is why, in the past, american planes, in cooperation with government forces, have bombed al qaeda positions. now that these attacks may be stopped, there is a risk that al qaeda will be strengthened and a large part of the sunni population will end up in the ranks of the radical islamists. we have a humanitarian crisis: 77,000 people are refugees in their own country and many children are used as soldiers. the west, the european union, must ensure that stability is brought to the region and at the same time prevent terrorists from infiltrating the european union in the form of refugees.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: democracy and fundamental rights, on which the european union is supposed to be based, in accordance with article 2 of the treaty establishing the european union, are today in practice being called into question by the union's own institutions. when the european commission answers in writing to our question that fundamental rights do not apply in the framework of the memoranda, this means that the citizens of the member states of the union which are subject to the memorandum are treated as second-class europeans and these states as debt colonies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the dictators of the 20th century prevented elections from taking place by using military force, while the post-military authoritarianism of the european elites of the 21st century is essentially trying to cancel elections through economic blackmail. europe needs a change of course.
madam president, commissioner, a few days ago i was in turkey, as part of the joint parliamentary committee, and i was trying to explain to my turkish colleagues that respect for the rule of law is a precondition for a country's accession to the european union and one of the main values on which the union is based, along with democracy and human rights. but they pointed out something i knew: there are cases where the mechanisms established to ensure the rule of law do not work effectively, thus creating a threat to the functioning of the entire european union as an area of freedom, security and justice. so how do we ask them to comply? it is true that such cases do exist. i therefore firmly believe that a new institutional framework is necessary; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's ambiguity in relation to the protection of human rights in the european union is obvious, mr timmermans. a few days ago, on 26 january, at the meeting of the committee on petitions, i raised the issue of the memorandum's violation of human rights in greece and asked the commission to take action, but the commission declared that it had no jurisdiction, since the memorandum was not covered by european union law. this position is politically and legally unacceptable. politically because there can be no special zone where human rights do not apply, and legally because the memorandum has been incorporated into european union law by ecofin decision 2010/320 and published in the official journal of the european union on 6 june 2010, page 9. so you will continue to make claims that the troika and the memorandum may be violating human rights in greece?
madam president, frontex has no past, no present and, much less, no future. the establishment of the european agency for the management of cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union was expected to be beneficial, but its operational effectiveness has so far been considered insufficient. for example, in my country greece, official figures presented by the agency's executive director, ilkka laitinen, showed a dramatic increase in illegal crossings for the year 2013. in addition, compared to 2012, the number of illegal migrants increased by 48%, a number that cannot be tolerated and absorbed by the european union. frontex, like the dublin ii and schengen treaties, was created for a period of calm. the european union is therefore unprepared in times of tension and is faced with nervous, convulsive movements rather than asymmetrical threats. it is time for them to be revised in the interests of the peoples.
the tragic deaths of migrants in the mediterranean have recently become a major source of concern for the european union and its governments' common policy on migration. this is frontex. this is the triton project. this is dublin iii and the so-called 'smart borders' of the european union. these are mechanisms that chase to the death immigrants and refugees, immigrants who do not need monopolies and all those who were forced to flee their countries in order to escape poverty, hunger and the imperialist interventions of the same perpetrators: the european union, nato, the united states, to control the wealth-producing resources of the monopolies. the kke is calling for immediate measures to welcome, shelter and provide relief for migrants and refugees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal status of workers living and working in greece is respected. the concentration camps must now be closed and the dublin ii and iii regulations repealed. travel documents for those wishing to move to other countries.
madam president, we have repeatedly said in this chamber that we will not allow the mediterranean to become a vast graveyard of souls. and we have made very significant efforts. we must not be hypocrites. the people who work at frontex deserve to be congratulated because, in addition to the fact that they are carrying out a difficult task and their duties, they are also moving along a fine line which requires respect for the human rights of these people. and that is being done. we must not forget that, in addition to guarding the external borders, frontex must also coordinate operation triton and other services that contribute to the rescue. what must be done to combat this phenomenon? are the resources available at frontex sufficient so far? and besides, is it staffed with the right human resources with the necessary know-how? we must contribute to that in order to strengthen it. but there is another obligation of the european union: we must speed up those routes that provide asylum, because we know that desperate people who come to europe because they believe it is the promised land, are looking for a way of providing asylum and are resorting to the traffickers, whom the european union has an obligation, with the ways it has and with others it will invent, to control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat this illegal immigration. this is the principle behind the declaration by our commissioner, mr abramopoulos, and at the same time françois crépeau, who is the un special rapporteur on the rights of migrants, recently said that we must encourage and invest in the mobility of migrants, so that this phenomenon can be tackled. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer is "blue card". if i understand the question correctly, the philosophy of the european union is not to close borders but to control them. to control those people who can be occupied with human conditions ensuring their human rights on the one hand, and on the other to stamp out the phenomenon of traffickers who enrich themselves at the expense of human souls.
madam president, is it a tragic coincidence that today, along with our discussion, we had the terrible incident off the coast of libya? unfortunately, it is not. on any given day, people would be at sea trying to reach the shores of europe and many of them would drown. i come from a country, greece, which is under great pressure on its external borders on a daily basis from the flows of migrants, and i can appreciate the role of frontex and i can assure you that without frontex we would be mourning many more victims. the situation in africa and the middle east gives us two tasks: to guard and protect the union's land and sea borders and to ensure the lives of refugees at sea. on this basis, and pending the finalization of a comprehensive migration policy in the european union, frontex should be strengthened with the necessary resources and legislative power to save lives and assist member states, always with respect for fundamental rights. and let 's not forget: summer is coming and the refugee wave will be huge.
mr timmermans, we need an immediate change in dublin so that greece stops becoming a storehouse of souls. the european union must therefore draw up a solidarity clause to allocate migration flows and refugees among all the member states of the european union in proportion to their size, gdp and population. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this time you will answer me and not throw the ball on the stand as you did in the last debate. finally, i would like to point out to you by microphone that what you have said above does not concern me, because my struggles are well known, not only against racism and xenophobia but also for german compensation for the families of greek citizens and jews of thessaloniki who were executed in nazi camps. so you've come to the wrong door, mr timmermans. you can take your remarks elsewhere. i don't get that. let's get this straight.
mr president, good words have been spoken and will continue to be spoken during this debate. but unfortunately, words often do not match actions and do not reflect reality, because some of those who are working today for the good of european citizens are the same people who condemned my country and its people to a humanitarian crisis unprecedented for a country of the european union. they are the same people who, with the economic measures they imposed, led to the dismantling of the national health system: patients with serious chronic diseases, like cancer, standing in line to get their chemotherapy drug, and if they get it, they go to the hospital for treatment. the pensioners are forced to pay a very high participation rate for the necessary medicines. the prohibitive cost forces them to sell off any property and others to stop treatment, thus endangering their own lives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of medicines is not compromised, and that the quality of medicines is not compromised. so you can understand how the average greek european citizen feels when he sees us sitting here so comfortably discussing not just serious but literally life and death issues, with the only result being another wish-list.
the barbarity of capitalist exploitation and the european union is revealed in all its grandeur by the commodification of even the most vital human need for health and medicine. the people are paying more and more. the poor, the unemployed and the uninsured are being denied them altogether, while a handful of pharmaceutical companies are pilfering government budgets, insurance funds, millions of patients, at predatory prices. the financial coverage from the government and the insurance funds is decreasing, private spending is increasing, companies are hoarding and the pharmaceutical protection of the people is decreasing. health and medicine are at the heart of the european union's reforms and they are imposing the costs on the people, who are forced to fight for a state-owned pharmaceutical company, a public health system without entrepreneurs, the abolition of vat on medicines, the abolition of workers' participation in the cost of medicines, with the state taking sole responsibility.
health is a public good and a fundamental right. it's not a commodity. however, in recent years we have seen health being targeted by murderous austerity policies and public spending on health shrinking. we have armies of uninsured people in europe today, or even of people who are insured, who are unable to pay for their medicines, both because their own financial resources are being reduced and because the pharmaceutical companies are demanding ever higher prices. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'medicinal products' in the definition of medicinal products. we need to ensure that everyone has access to medicines. we must disconnect research and innovation in the pharmaceutical sector from the price of the medicine on the market. the current model of patents and monopolies no longer works. access to medicines is not a luxury; it's a necessity of life.
mr president, the issues of access to medicines for the citizens of the european south, who have been impoverished by austerity, are centred on high prices and the decision of the european commission to convert medicine from a public good into a commodity. in greece, because of the memorandum, thousands of greeks now have difficulty in obtaining medicines. this is true for cancer patients and other seriously ill patients. this is why dozens of social pharmacies have been set up, which offer free medicines to the unemployed. at the same time, the violent budgetary adjustment imposed by the troika and the memorandum has drastically reduced the budgets of hospitals, which now have huge shortages of essential medicines, putting patients at risk. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
in writing. the fight against child sexual abuse online must be immediate, decisive and continuous. we can't leave our children at the mercy of various circuits and criminals. this is why we need strict and effective legislation. the european union's member states must coordinate their action, and the european commission has an important role to play in this. however, to be effective, it requires the implementation of the relevant eu directive on the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. at the same time, the law enforcement and judicial authorities of the eu member states must become even more effective in tackling cybercrime that knows no borders. so zero tolerance for the sexual abuse of children online. this is the message that the european parliament must send today.
mr president, the violation of human rights in burundi has been increasing lately. as presidential and general elections in 2015 approach, the regime is stepping up measures to control press freedom. at the same time, it restricts the conditions under which opposition parties can carry out their electoral activities. recently, a flagrant violation of human rights in burundi has been the unlawful arrest and detention of well-known activist and radio station manager, bob rugurika, for daring, with documented reporting, to investigate and reveal the murder of three italian nuns in september 2014. we therefore support the resolution condemning the human rights violations in burundi and call for the immediate release of activist bob rugurika.
i'm the editor. - mr president, the tragedy of the families of the missing in cyprus has literally shocked us all since our youth. thousands of greek cypriots have been missing for 41 years, since july 1974 when turkish troops illegally invaded cyprus and occupied 37% of the island. all these missing persons were murdered by the turkish occupation troops and buried in mass graves in areas designated as 'military' to cover their tracks. but when mass graves are discovered by the efforts of the committee of the missing, as is the case of the mass grave of the missing of assia, discovered in the village of ornithi, then the turkish troops try again to cover up the tracks. the un resolutions on the missing cypriots are dozens. the european court of human rights' convictions are also a trap for turkey. we therefore call for the adoption of the resolution on the missing persons of cyprus and asia, which calls on the turkish army and turkey to... (the president cut off the speaker)
the turkish invasion of cyprus in 1974 and the continuing occupation of 40% of the island since then are themselves major violations of international law for which turkey has been repeatedly condemned by the european court of human rights. this major violation was accompanied by heinous war crimes, such as the mass execution of some 1,600 greek and greek cypriot prisoners, who have been listed as missing for 40 years. the turkish authorities have not only failed to recognize and punish these crimes, but they have also been constantly trying to cover them up. a separate episode is the recent transfer of bones from the region of assia to another unknown area in the occupied territories. it is a disgrace to european political and legal culture that such behaviour is tolerated by a state ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, for some people these may be greek letters printed on paper. but in reality these names correspond to men who were fathers, grandfathers, sons and grandchildren. most of them are from asia. assia and its inhabitants found themselves in the eye of the cyclone and the brutality of the turkish troops. innocent civilians are executed in cold blood in the first hours. after the exchange of prisoners was completed in the following months, 84 people never returned. all the war crimes committed by the turkish occupation forces and their turkish cypriot collaborators, and in particular that committed in occupied asia, have remained unpunished to this day. the turks, to cover up their crimes, didn't even respect dead asians. they moved the bones from the mass graves and threw them into wells and dumps, never to be found. as is already known, the excavations carried out in 2009 by the pea in ornithie confirmed the information. the problems arising ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. four decades after the invasion and illegal occupation of 30% of cyprus, turkey continues to provoke ignoring any notion of international law. the european union has a duty to help the victims of the tragedy of the cypriot people, and to help the victims of the tragedy of the cypriot people. cypriot fighters who sacrificed themselves in defence of their homeland remain missing for four decades. today in asia, the families of the victims are experiencing the ultimate humiliation as turkey moves the remains of their relatives from mass graves to secret areas designated as military to avoid investigations. when, mr president, are we going to stand by and watch turkey's provocative attitude, which humiliates the memory of the victims and the dignity and pain of their families? the european parliament has been asked to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been asked to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not compromised by the turkish government's policy of non-alignment.
in writing. although such action is necessary in order to examine cases where eu countries use loopholes in eu legislation and regulations to take unfair advantage of economic size, this proposal for a decision nevertheless gives the special committee set up for six months the opportunity to investigate other measures of a similar nature or effect, thus directly intervening in the tax mechanisms of the member states without restriction.
in writing. although such action is necessary, since it will examine cases in which eu countries use loopholes in eu legislation and regulations to the disadvantage of economic operators, this proposal for a decision allows the special committee to be set up for six months to investigate other measures of a similar nature or effect, thus directly intervening in the tax mechanisms of the member states without restriction. for this reason, i am voting against the whole establishment of a special committee on taxation and other measures of a similar nature or impact.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘setting-up of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect’ because we agree in principle.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the establishment, powers, membership and term of office of the special committee on tax ruling agreements and other measures of a similar nature and effect, because this committee will examine in depth the well-known lux leaks case and other similar cases involving tax havens within eu countries and thus presenting a challenge to millions of impoverished eu citizens who pay their taxes regularly, at a time when many businesses and wealthy private taxpayers are exploiting tax havens.
in writing. the establishment of a committee to examine cases where eu countries use loopholes in their legislation and regulations to take unfair advantage of economic size (tax ruling) is necessary but should be limited to investigating these cases without extending its competence to the rest of the member states' tax mechanisms.
in writing. we are voting against because there is no global campaign; there are just a few countries that are currently fighting against the islamic caliphate, although most of these countries are the same ones that indirectly or even directly in some cases nurtured and armed the caliphate. in any case, we consider their attitude to be hypocritical and that they are simply seeking to serve their own interests again.
in writing. i am voting against the resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria because of the violence of the islamic state, because there is no global campaign, there are just some countries that are currently fighting against the islamic caliphate, although most of these countries are the same that indirectly or even directly in some cases have nurtured and armed the caliphate. in any case, i think that their attitude is hypocritical and that they are simply seeking to serve their own interests again. there are more serious problems in the region that we need to worry about.
in writing. — we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, in particular in the is context’ because we agree in principle.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the humanitarian crisis in syria, particularly in relation to the islamic state, because the european parliament clearly and unequivocally notes that many refugees and internally displaced persons are not registered and that unregistered populations are excluded from much-needed humanitarian aid.
in writing. there is no global campaign against the islamic state. there are specific countries currently fighting against the islamic caliphate, most of which are the same ones that indirectly or even directly, in some cases, nurtured and armed it to serve their own interests.
the european union must seek to create a european energy union while diversifying its energy sources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the countries of the union to become less dependent on energy imports. but, mr šefčovič, i have heard nothing about support for greece and cyprus to exploit without external threats the oil and gas reserves in their exclusive economic zone. i am totally opposed to the commission's strategy of limiting the sovereignty of the member states in the conduct of their energy policy. the european union must develop renewable energy sources and must stop tolerating energy poverty. in greece, because of the troika and the memoranda, over 300,000 households have no access to electricity. the new greek government must therefore resolve this issue immediately and the troika, which includes the commission, must stop putting obstacles in the way of direct and free electricity supply to these poor households, because greece cannot tolerate any more energy poverty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the response that the european union, the eurogroup, the commission and the european central bank will give to the questions raised by the greek government is also a reflection of how the eurozone will deal with its own problems, because in recent years we have seen a decline in investment in the eurozone, economic stagnation, deflation, the risk of a new recession, an increase in poverty and unemployment throughout the eurozone. there's a mckinsey study that says that in recent years there's been an increase in public debt across the eurozone: fifteen of the 19 euro-zone member states have debt well above the maastricht treaty threshold, seven of the euro-zone member states have public debt above 100%, and the largest increase in debt in recent years has been in the four countries that have entered the memorandum: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly, and has recently adopted a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. i am pleased to note that the debate on greece today is not in the bellicose, vindictive tone adopted by the german christian democrats a few days ago, when they wanted to take revenge on the greek people for voting against their wishes. i welcome the statement made by the president of the commission, mr juncker, a few days ago, when he spoke to the economic and social committee, where you said, mr president, that you behaved unacceptably as european institutions towards the greeks, that you offended them and that mistakes were made in the implementation of the programme. what has been given by the eurogroup decision is not just a breath of fresh air; is the ability to combine two things: the first is the need to follow the rules and the second is the need for all of us to respect democracy and the election result, which says that something needs to be looked at, that maybe we need to change it and that we were wrong. that is what we are seeking, by accepting our commitments and asking for european solidarity in the fight against corruption and tax evasion, by asking for technical assistance - something which, as dr schäuble said, previous governments refused to do - and we are also asking for the juncker investment package to be strengthened with criteria such as directing these investments to the countries that are most in need, because they have higher unemployment and higher investment returns, and of course to make use of the flexibility in the stability pact, which a former commissioner responsible for the subject, mr prodi, had described as 'stupid', and the characteristic rate-scaling decision taken by the european central bank. i would like to conclude with two words on the subject of ukraine. the peace agreement is a small tree. he's in danger of dehydrating. our job is to calmly support this peace process. as regards the issue of dealing with terrorist attacks, in addition to our solidarity with the peoples of france and denmark, i welcome mr juncker's calm stance that we must not make the mistakes that the americans made after 2001.
the eurogroup/syriza-anel government agreement in greece extends the memorandum with the troika's supervision, under another name. the european union is not changing. any negotiation with her is fraud and always ends in barbarism. the people who bled will continue to pay a debt they do not owe, with a national objective of capital gains, with privatizations, taxes, crushed wages, pensions, social benefits, new measures for a simple life. even the crumbs in extreme poverty and the increase in the basic wage are postponed, to be given if and when the treaties and the troika allow it. the government presents the people as applauding this policy but no one has yet gotten rid of the people. no more of this! the abolition of the memorandum, with the recovery of all losses, the cancellation of the debt and the disengagement from the european union! this is the truly dignified stance of our people, which will be heard loudly in athens on friday at the great rally of the communist party of greece.
mr president, the negotiations between the new greek government and the institutions, as we should now be accustomed to calling them, have clearly shown that the european union is giving in to the wishes of germany and its friends. while it was given the opportunity to show that it was interested in the economic development of the member states and, by extension, of its citizens, it demonstrated unequivocally that it was firmly attached to germany's disposition to exploit the crisis in the southern countries to its advantage. it is no coincidence that, according to research by the london school of economics, germany's low borrowing rates over the last five years have brought berlin revenues of some 80 billion euros, a fact unknown to the people of europe. let us put an end to this exploitation and manipulation. the european union is not the property of any particular country. the german government should first try to be consistent with its obligations and then teach others. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. with regard to the issue of economic and monetary union which was discussed at the informal european council, i would point out that while the euro area insists on reducing budget deficits, it does not take serious steps to reduce its democratic deficit. the famous eurogroup operates without any democratic control by the european people through the european parliament. the decisions it takes every day are reinforcing austerity and the impoverishment of the peoples of europe and have filled the european union with armies of unemployed. at the same time, the eurogroup has become a political body representing the creditors vis-à-vis the countries that have entered into the memorandum. this has been clearly shown recently by the strangling pressure of the eurogroup on greece to continue the memorandum policies that have led to a huge humanitarian crisis in my country. we have given 215 billion euros in loans to greece and yet we have over 1.5 million unemployed people there now. the greek people are not going to accept any more exploitation by the creditors. it requires an audit and a write-off of the defaulted debt. it does not accept the guardianship of the creditors and the limitation of its national sovereignty and that is why it will throw the troika and the creditors out of greece.
in writing. the debate on a possible exit of greece from the eurozone, which is coming back into the spotlight once again, must stop now! greece was, is and will remain a member of the eurozone. the greek people have made enormous sacrifices in recent years to secure this conquest. no one can argue with that. we have been called upon to correct, in a very short time, errors and distortions of decades. to a large extent, reforms that had been delayed for years were finally moving forward. but all this has come at a huge social cost and the eu is often seen as a punisher rather than a helper. if greece had been given the necessary space and time in the past, the situation today would be much better for all of us. europe, in cooperation with the greek government, must restore calm and confidence to the markets. the most important thing is the productive reconstruction of the country. we need a growth shock to the real economy right away. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we can't afford another missed opportunity.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, after thanking the rapporteur, mr zalba, i should like to point out that today's debate gives us the opportunity to raise some serious questions about the functioning of the european central bank. mr draghi, how will you deal with the conflict of interest that exists within the ecb? the european central bank has now become a state within a state. the ecb is a purportedly independent monetary policy institution, and it also supervises the 130 largest systemic banks in europe. it is also a lender to the member states of the european union, having bought, and even bought, on the secondary market €217 billion worth of government bonds, from which it derived 80% of its profits in 2013. the ecb is also a member of the troika, which has impoverished the countries of the memorandum. as early as march 2013, the european parliament has called for the removal of this conflict of interest within the ecb by resolution. the same was requested of you on 14 january by the advocate general of the court of justice of the european union. the european central bank is a new institution. what the ecb seems to be interested in is to secure the profits as a lender to the member states of the european union. the european central bank is thus engaged in a policy of blackmailing the peoples of europe and their democratic governments in the name of supposedly saving the euro. this has been done to ireland, to cyprus and a few days ago to greece with the illegal decision of the ecb not to accept greek government bonds in eurosystem operations from 16 february, when you knew very well, mr draghi, that greece is on a programme until 28 january. mr draghi, you must understand that you are not the commissioner for europe. you owe the peoples of europe respect. so stop speculating against the greek people and immediately return the 1.9 billion euros of the ecb's profits from greek bonds in 2014. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i also do not understand why mr draghi is not here to answer, but allow me to pretend that he is here, or else that he will try to answer these questions soon. there was, during the eurogroup negotiations on greece, a bank run, which endangered the stability of the greek banking system. of course, the support of the ecb was of great importance; however, the outcome of the negotiations left us with a big question about the financing of the short-term liquidity needs that greece faces for march until april. nobody has an answer to that, so a possible response to these needs is the use of ela funds so that the greek banks can buy greek government t-bills. but there was a strong ‘no’ from the ecb during the negotiations on friday, so i was wondering if the ecb was willing to reconsider in the event of extreme severe liquidity problems in march, on the legitimate basis of the independence of the ecb, without any other political affirmation. secondly, during the negotiations the opinion was expressed that the ela provided to greek banks should be brought down from eur 65 billion to eur 42 billion. it was a proposal of mr sinn of the ifo: i wonder if you share their views? and lastly, a return of eur 1.9 billion was requested to be withheld from the ecb from the greek sovereign bonds that were at our disposal. what is the position on that, and what happens with the liquidity today? has the bank sector recovered from last week’s shock?
mr president, recently, on 19 february, the mayor of caracas, antonio ledesma, a political opponent of the country's president, maduro, was arrested. he was arrested in his office by the intelligence services without a warrant and without any specific charges being brought against him. the ledesma case, as expected, and rightly so, has raised the alarm of world public opinion. this is exactly the same case as that of nicolaus michalogiakos, the leader of the third largest political party in greece, golden dawn, who, together with members of parliament and other party members, has been illegally and unjustly imprisoned by the previous greek government and remains imprisoned by the current one. it is good to be sensitive and to fight against any violation of human rights wherever and whenever it occurs. but it is hypocritical to have a biased view on this serious matter. it would be much more appropriate and you would be much more convincing in your democratic sensibilities if you convinced greece to stop this disgrace, which does not honour us as greeks or the european parliament.
mr president, the political and social crisis in venezuela is due to the fact that for 15 years the opposition has refused to accept its defeat. he loses the election and tries to reverse the defeat with riots and coups. a coup like this happened before, when president chavez was overthrown. and when president chavez was overthrown and arrested, the western governments did not protest and some even applauded the coup. so instead of believing the media, the media which organized the previous coup, it would be better for the european parliament to try with its influence to persuade the venezuelan opposition to look to taking power not by riots and coups but by voting, as is done in all democratic countries.
mr president, in the elections of january 2015, the greek people voted against the continuation of the disastrous austerity policy. the failure of this policy is evident from the confessions of its initiators themselves, such as the admission by the international monetary fund of a gross underestimation of the fiscal multiplier, i.e. the recessionary effects of austerity. the new government has entered a four-month process of negotiating with the european institutions on its own plan for the reconstruction of the country. in this context, the european commission and the european institutions must respect the will of the greek people and accept the drastic changes in the economic and fiscal policy mix that are required to put the greek economy and society on a sustainable track. only in this way can the union be consistent with the values of democracy and subsidiarity enshrined in its founding treaty.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i would like to point out that in greece on 25 january the greek people elected a new government and now its creditors are still strangling it. i appeal to all of you to help stop the strangulation of the greek people, to leave the greek people free to decide their own fate. that's my request.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, allow me to remain seated because of my condition. the austerity imposed by governments in europe has made the situation of women worse. women have become the queens of parttime work and unemployment, as shown by the data contained in the report. women in fulltime employment in europe are 54% of the total, while men are 72%. in contrast, women are part-time at 76%, while men are only 24%. the unemployment rate for women in greece is 31%, while for men it is 23%. why is this happening ? first, because austerity has destroyed the few governmental provisions for child care, for the elderly, for family. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation of women in the labour market, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat discrimination against women in the labour market. policies are being implemented that lock women back into the home and that is a huge step backwards. i hope that we will not have to dwell on the sad findings of the report again. we must change these policies immediately.
the commission mr president, the economic crisis, austerity and the memoranda of understanding that the countries of the european south are experiencing have serious repercussions on societies and on the efforts to achieve equality between men and women. in greece, the memorandum has led women into poverty and social marginalization. thus, according to official figures, 60% of the registered unemployed in the oaed are women, and number 518,000. at the same time, however, only 15% of these unemployed women receive unemployment benefits. also, while the unemployment rate for women in 2009, before the memorandum, was 14.4% in 2014, the rate has risen to 29.3%, well above the unemployment rate for men, which reaches 23.4%. at the same time, the gender pay gap has widened and, with the troika's dismantling of the public sector and the imposition of flexible forms of employment, greek women are now disadvantaged and motherhood has been undermined.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. abortion and women's reproductive rights have always been sensitive social issues, which continue to concern societies and people of all ages, regardless of gender. this is because they are directly connected with the coming into the world of a new life, around which crucial questions of a moral, legal and medical nature revolve, and which are the subject of conflicting theories. this explains the differences in the member states' legislation on this subject, which shows that the legislative regulation of the matter depends in many cases on entrenched social and religious views. what we must understand, however, is that in this field there is no black and white, so all the different views seem to have their own social, moral or legal basis. it is our responsibility to focus on the advancement of racial equality and all the issues that go with it. personally, as a woman and as a lawyer, who deals specifically with family and criminal law in greece, where abortion is permitted under certain strict conditions, i believe that the gap between free access to abortion and protection of the rights of the pregnant woman can be bridged after careful legal study, taking into account serious medical factors.
the commission i think that we all know that there is no such thing as a perfect market and that there must be interventions to limit the malfunctions. i believe that both mr messerschmidt's report and the commissioner's report are moving in the right direction. i would like to point out as a greek mep that the structure of the internal market plays a huge role in the final economic outcome. but of course, not everything is the responsibility of the european union, governments and societies themselves must be involved. i think that, according to the experts' assessments, one of the reasons why greece did not manage to get out of the adjustment programme as well, as quickly and as successfully as ireland and portugal, which had their own programmes, was the problems in the structure of the internal market. that is, many sacrifices were made, wages fell, but inflation was maintained at a level of 2.5% for 2010-2014, despite the fact that nominal labor costs fell to around 12% and the gross domestic product fell by 20%. so it matters enormously how any economy works, how we limit its dysfunctions. the question is whether the right policy initiatives will be taken to achieve concrete results. for example, why is russian gas imported into greece one of the most expensive in the european union? why is the reduction in energy costs not reflected in the utility's utility bills? if we can get these specific issues resolved, i think we'll do much better.
member of the commission.– mr president, the russian ban on the import of certain agricultural goods from the eu and from some other countries has had an impact not only on the agricultural sector but also on specialised road transport operations in the eu, in particular in countries with a high volume of agriculture exports to russia. before the import ban took affect, russia was, after the us, the second biggest importer of agricultural goods from the eu. in terms of value, almost half of the agricultural exports from the eu to russia, worth eur 5.1 billion, are affected by the russian import ban. above all, this concerns meat and meat products, fish and seafood, milk and dairy products, and prepared fruits and vegetables. in addition, the transit of the banned products through russia to markets in central asia or the caucasus is also severely restricted, which effectively extends the ban to eu exports of the products concerned of these countries. road is the main mode of transport for getting eu exports to russia. more than 80% of all agricultural exports from the eu to russia go by road, in both value and volume terms. in addition to the producers of agricultural goods, it is above all road transport operators who are suffering because of the russian import ban. i and my team are fully aware of this. just how much they suffer is a question that is difficult to answer and that depends on individual circumstances. it is clear that many of the banned goods which would have gone to russia are now redirected and sold on other markets. in some areas, the price of the banned goods in local markets has fallen significantly due to the oversupply that has been created. in particular, road transport operators specialised in the export of agricultural products to russia and who invested in equipment such as refrigerated vehicles may face real difficulties in the wake of the russian import ban, but again this depends on how much they were able to redeploy their transport fleet. how can we help the road hauliers most severely affected by the russian import ban? let me be clear. there is not much in terms of direct financial assistance we can offer at eu level. unlike my colleague in charge of agriculture, i do not have an emergency fund for transport operators. at a national level, however, road hauliers in need may benefit from some state aid. de minimus rules allow state aid for road freight transport companies of up to eur 100 000 over a period of three years. there are some conditions attached but such aid does not have to be notified to the commission. state aid above this limit can only be considered under very strict conditions and would have to be notified to the commission. road transport relations between the eu and russia are still largely governed by bilateral agreements between russia and individual member states of the eu. it is therefore in the hands of member states to see what they can do on the basis of their bilateral agreements. there is no eu-russia road transport agreement, nor a corresponding policy dialogue. this issue can only be addressed with russia in the context of our overall eu external policy towards russia. in the context of the eu external trade policy, the commission is monitoring the wto compatibility of the various restrictions applied by russia very closely, including the restriction on the transit of the banned products through russia.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the question from the transport committee of the european parliament to the commission - which we are discussing today - shows that there is selective memory in this chamber. our committee is talking about the measures to restrict imports and transport of agricultural products taken by russia on 7 august 2014, forgetting that these were a response to the european sanctions against russia over the ukrainian crisis a few days earlier, on 31 july. it is also characteristic that my colleagues in the committee on transport are now invoking the prohibitions on restrictions on the movement of goods in the context of the world trade organisation. however, if anyone has violated the agency's regulations first, it is the european union, since the 2014 regulation 833 on sanctions against russia does not even specifically mention any substantial security interests of the union or its members that are affected by russia's actions in the ukrainian crisis to justify the imposition of sanctions. the point is that sanctions have proved ineffective in influencing russian policy and the only result of the trade war is to harm european producers and transporters. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in force are in breach of the anti-dumping measures in force.
s & d) and the mr president, commissioner, the fair imposition of the embargo on russia in view of the events in crimea and the rest of ukraine and the russian response have created the known major problems in trade, especially in agricultural products, both in greece and in many other european countries. what is less known to the public is the huge problem that has arisen in the transport sector. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's response in december 2014 refusing any aid and urging the industry to adapt to a different business model sounds like a mockery. of course people do, but the loss of income due to a political decision - the whole of the union - must somehow be compensated for, or else we are pushing citizens to take our policies negatively.
the commission mr president, the cold war conflict between the european union and russia has had adverse consequences for the economy of the european south. on 9 august, i asked the european parliament to give full compensation not only to greek farmers but also to greek transport companies. greek hauliers have already lost over 10 million euros, as 40% of greek agricultural products are exported to russia and transported by trucks. when the embargo against the former yugoslavia was imposed in 1992 by regulation 525, greek carriers had been compensated. i now have a commission document, mr president, dated 9.12.2014 informing greek carriers that they cannot be entitled to compensation from the european union for the damage they have suffered as a result of the russian embargo, which was a countermeasure to the restrictive measures imposed by the european union. the european union and the commission are therefore urging the greek hauliers to find their own solution to the problem they are facing. that is a pity, commissioners.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of transport services, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the design and construction of trucks that ensure safe driving is therefore required, and this can be helped by a more rounded body that increases the field of vision. at the same time, the new truck specifications help to reinforce the new concept of combined transport, to enhance competitiveness and to protect the environment. however, member states should intensify checks to identify vehicles which may exceed the relevant weight limits. finally, the new standards for the dimensions and weights of lorries should not in future lead to the exclusion of small hauliers from road transport, on the pretext of extending these new standards to all lorries in general.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. gradually things are getting better, we are solving specific problems, such as financing long-term investments, and i think that over time the picture is changing and the prospects are improving. for example, we have the stabilisation and the restructuring of the banking system, we have the substantial reduction in the cost of borrowing - both for business and for the public sector - particularly in the so-called peripheral countries, although i do not quite agree with this wording, but in any case the fall in the cost of borrowing, for example in ireland and portugal, makes debt more manageable and frees up resources for development and social reasons. we also have a fall in the euro to realistic levels and we have very positive investment initiatives, such as the juncker plan and the initiative of mr lamassoure and those who have worked with him. so the picture is changing and i see a kind of confusion, both on the part of the left, which tends to anticipate the disaster that is not coming, and on the part, i would say, of the far right, the eurosceptics or the anti-europeans, who fail to realise that over time we are getting better and not worse. it is not by chance, i think, that the forecasts for the european economy are changing for the better, that is, by all the international organizations, while there are member countries which can show their own success stories from poland to ireland, which are of course not free from economic and social problems.
mr president, allow me also to welcome this very important initiative of the european long-term investment funds and to express my faith that this investment vehicle for alternative investments is really suitable for the financing needs of europe in growth assets, contrary to the juncker plan which is more counter—cyclical in nature and overlooks the effects of deleveraging. we expect that there is potential to achieve a higher investment multiplier in the real economy, and also a more balanced view to include a higher focus on the supply. maybe it would be more effective. among the asset classes, this fund tends towards finance. the most important areas are the private equity schemes and the smes, and at this point i think we need to consider as fast as possible the facilitation of these financing options and pay considerable attention to the portfolio allocation of these kinds of investment opportunities, not only by focusing on the scope of the smes, but also on the geographic factors, without bias in investment, and the legal structures of the european south.
the commission mr president, the main problem of modern economic functioning is the financialisation of the economy and the operation of a 'casino economy' which invests in derivatives and stock exchange products rather than in the real economy. and that's because the funds are making a profit. that is why trillions of dollars are circulating and changing countries and hands in a matter of hours, while armies of unemployed and world poverty are growing. to stop this situation requires firstly the enactment of a new glass-steagall act, which prohibits banks from being a major driver of the 'casino economy', a piece of legislation that separates commercial from investment banks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary infrastructure projects.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, 2,300 years ago menander declared that loans "make slaves of men", and 400 years later plutarch said it in harsher language. you're borrowing it from the madness and the shit of eastin. the crisis of financial capital in greece has hit our country deadly. they drained the people, took everything they had to save the banks. unemployment, malnutrition, the closure of businesses and shops, the emigration of young people, suicides are the problems of our country today. the european union's long-term investment funds will be given to the banks or to the people? so let the greek people arrange their own destinies as they wish!
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2013/009 pl/zachem from poland to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i believe that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation report of the european globalisation adjustment fund - egf application/2013/009 pl/zachem, poland, because the money of the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as i believe it is a major move to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade while facilitating their reintegration into the labour market quickly and effectively.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because, as the polish authorities also confirm, firstly, the financial contribution from the egf does not replace measures which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, secondly, they have demonstrated that the actions provide individual support to workers and are not to be used for restructuring companies or sectors, and they have confirmed that the actions charged as non-eligible third party support are not funded by other eu funding instruments.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european parliament, by this proposal, which i have supported, approves the financial support for the workers and suppliers made redundant by the polish chemical company zachem s.a. through the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the cor was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of global structural changes in trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the case in question concerns a request by poland for support for redundancies and fulfils the eligibility conditions as laid down in the relevant regulation. the polish authorities submitted the request on 9 october 2013 and the commission communicated its assessment on 21 january 2015. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was estimated to be around 10% in the investigation period.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2014/014 de/aleo solar from germany for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i remain convinced that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation report of the european globalisation adjustment fund - egf application/2014/014 de/aleo solar - germany, because the money of the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as i believe it is a major move to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade, while at the same time facilitating their reintegration into the labour market with speed and efficiency.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because, as the european parliament notes in that report, the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes measures to reintegrate the 476 dismissed into the labour market, such as vocational training, career guidance, business advice, interregional counselling, job search by job search specialists and job coaching for newly recruited workers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the european parliament approves the financial support for the redundant workers of the german company aleo solar ag through the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which i voted for. the cor was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of global structural changes in trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the case concerned a german request for redundancy support and fulfilled the eligibility conditions as laid down in the relevant regulation. the german authorities submitted the request on 29 july 2014 and the commission communicated its assessment on 16 december 2014. aleo solar ag is active in the manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers in the union market. the company in question had a turnover of eur 550 million and a profit of eur 43 million in 2010, but this decreased sharply from 2011 and by 2013 had been converted into losses of eur 92 million.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2013/007 be/hainaut steel (duferco-nlmk) from belgium for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i remain convinced that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund - application egf/2013/007 be/hainaut steel (duferco-nlmk) - belgium, because the money from the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as i believe it is a major move to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade, while at the same time facilitating their reintegration into the labour market with speed and efficiency.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as the belgian authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 1 june 2013, well before the final decision on granting the egf support for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i supported the proposal that the european parliament should approve financial aid for the redundant workers of the belgian companies duferco and nlmk, through the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the cor was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of global structural changes in trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the case in question concerns the support of 708 workers, for which the egf will contribute 50% of the total cost, as provided for. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to duferco. both are related to the production of base metals such as steel and are located in the hainaut region. the steel industry has been severely disrupted by economic shocks and its share of the european market is steadily declining. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. the local economy in hainaut is heavily dependent on heavy industry, so the decline of the two companies has a very negative impact on the local community.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2014/012 be/arcelormittal from belgium for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i remain convinced that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation report of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2014/012 be/arcelormittal - belgium) because the money of the adjustment fund should be given mainly to the redundant and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as the belgian authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 1 january 2014, well before the final decision on granting the egf support for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the financial aid to the workers of the steel company arcelor mittal liège s.a. from belgium. the cor was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of global structural changes in trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the case concerned a claim for support for 1285 redundant workers and fulfilled the eligibility conditions laid down in the relevant regulation. the competent authorities submitted the request on 22 july 2014 and the commission communicated its assessment on 9 december 2014. the decrease in the production volume of the union industry was mainly due to the decrease in the production volume of the union industry. in liege alone, the contraction in the metal industry contributed to a 32% reduction in employment in the sector.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar from belgium for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i remain convinced that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation report of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar - belgium) because the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the redundant and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as the belgian authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 1 april 2014, well before the decision and indeed the request for egf support for the proposed coordinated package.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the report, which i supported, concerns the financial contribution from the egf to caterpillar belgium s.a. following the dismissal of 1030 employees in 2014. the company manufactures vehicles and machinery for the construction industry, which has been hit as the global economic crisis has resulted in a reduction in investment in infrastructure. at the same time, the production and import of cheaper equipment into the eu from asia further contributed to the downward trend of the company. european construction and mining companies, which have been hit by both the economic crisis and competition from emerging economies, especially asia, are caterpillar's most important customers. the company therefore gradually lost momentum and consequently made staff cuts. the request concerns the region of charleroi in belgium. the support is aimed at unemployed people, 59% of whom have no upper secondary education and 43% of whom have been unemployed for more than 2 years. finally, 18% of the targeted redundancies expected to participate in the measures face the specter of exclusion from the labour market as they enter the 55-64 age group.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a second reading of the european parliament with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 96/53/ec on the fixing of maximum authorised dimensions for certain road vehicles for national and international transport and of maximum authorised weights for international transport in the community, as i agree with the principle of the free movement of goods, and with the principle of the free movement of persons.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation because, while it contains some amendments which are moving in the right direction, especially as regards the impact of road transport on the environment, the new safety rules and the new technical specifications for lorries, it fails to take account of the different level of infrastructure in the various countries of the union, and it also fails to promote the interconnection of road transport with other means of public transport.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation because, while it contains some amendments which are moving in the right direction, especially as regards the impact of road transport on the environment, the new safety rules and the new technical specifications for lorries, it fails to take account of the different level of infrastructure in the various countries of the union, and it does not promote the interconnection of road transport with other means of mass transport.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/53/ec on the fixing of maximum authorised dimensions for certain road vehicles for national and international transport and of maximum authorised weights for international transport in the community, as emphasis should be placed on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular carbon dioxide emissions, to improve road safety, to adapt the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs, and to facilitate intermodal transport while ensuring a level playing field and protecting road infrastructure.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the directive to be adopted should take account of the different level of infrastructure in the countries of the european union, as well as promote the interconnection of roads with other means of public transport.
the commission madam president, i voted against the report because it preserves the structures and processes that have led to the 'casino economy'. so, despite the fact that 1.6 trillion euros were given to bail out the banks, we still have 20 million unemployed in the european union. the reason is that these funds were not provided by the banks to support small and mediumsized enterprises and the real economy. at the same time, while hundreds of billions were given to the countries of the memorandum, debt eventually increased and with it unemployment. in greece, despite the €214 billion in loans, we still have thousands of people living in a humanitarian crisis and millions of unemployed. so to have investment in the real economy, we need to extend the separation of commercial and investment banks by law. we should have a new glass-steagall act.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide long-term financing for various infrastructure projects, for unlisted companies or for listed smes, issuing equity or debt securities for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. by providing funding for such projects, the eltifs contribute to the financing of the union's real economy and the implementation of the eu's single policies. as the main objective of the proposed regulation is to stimulate long-term european investment in the real economy, i am voting in favour of the european parliament's first reading. long-term financing is a key tool that can help to address the liquidity shortage of smes and put the greek and european economies on a path of growth, high levels of employment and competitiveness.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the supplementary report, as these investment methods are nothing but another way of serving big capital in its attempt to overcome national state barriers and exploit the poor and the weaker economic classes.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds, because these investment methods are nothing but another way of serving big business in its attempt to overcome national state barriers and exploit the poor and the economically weaker classes.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ these investment methods are an additional way of serving big capital, leading to the exploitation of the economically weaker classes.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of mr lamassoure's report, because longterm financing is indeed a crucial instrument and the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) can help to finance the union's real economy and the implementation of european policies. as the economic crisis has shown, complementing bank financing with a wider variety of sources of financing that better mobilise capital markets could help to address financing gaps. eltifs can play a key role in this respect and can also raise capital by attracting investors from third countries. uniform rules are, however, needed to ensure that eltifs have a stable and consistent format across the union.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interbank commission for card payments, considering that the fragmentation of the internal market is detrimental to competitiveness, growth and employment within the union and that therefore achieving greater coherence in the single market for electronic payments is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and consumer protection.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the supplementary report because greece has seen firsthand how banks behave when they are left to act freely, away from state control.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i disagree and vote against the supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interbank commissions for card-based payments, as greece has seen firsthand the behaviour of banks when they are left to act freely, away from state control.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payments, because the removal of direct and indirect obstacles to the proper functioning and completion of the single market for electronic payments, without discrimination between national and cross-border payments, is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ banks should not be left free and independent to act without state control.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by mr zalba on the new european regulation on the capping of fees charged by banks to retailers to process their customers' payments. the new regulation will enhance transparency in payment charges and allow shopkeepers and users to choose the credit card schemes that offer them the best terms. it is very important that all debit and credit card payment transactions should be subject to a maximum interchange fee.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2013/011 be/saint-gobain sekurit from belgium for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report as i remain convinced that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies and the funding of the glass sector requested does not offer a solution to the unemployment problem in the region.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed. the financing of the glass sector requested does not offer a solution to the unemployment problem in the region. for the above reasons, i am opposed to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund - application egf/2013/011 be/saint-gobain sekurit, belgium.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as the belgian authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 31 august 2013, well before the final decision on granting the egf support for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed, and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that assessing progress on equality between men and women is a primary issue. the road to development depends on real gender equality. the promotion of women's participation in the labour market and the reduction of the pay gap is urgently needed. finally, i believe that women should have control over their sexual and reproductive health, particularly through easy access to contraception and abortion.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report as it supports, among other things, the legalisation of abortion as a means of safeguarding sexual and reproductive health.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote on the report as a whole will be in favour of the fact that it supports, among other things, the legalisation of abortion as a means of safeguarding sexual and reproductive health.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that equality between men and women is a fundamental right, because any form of discrimination on grounds of sex is unacceptable and - finally - because i believe that all eu institutions must take gender equality issues into account in their policy-making, promote and safeguard them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013 because the european parliament is taking the initiative and asking the council, the commission and the member states to integrate a gender equality pillar in the europe 2020 strategy in order to assess progress in reducing the gender employment gap.
in writing. the report on the progress of equality between women and men in the eu, treats, not accidentally, the demand for women's emancipation and equality as "equality" in exploitation. it seeks greater participation of women in the labour market, to extract more surplus value for the capitalists. in the name of 'working-life balance', it promotes the intensification of the exploitation of women through parttime work, flexible working relationships, no rights and starvation wages. gender equality is used by the eu, urban governments and capital to remove gains made by women that responded to women's particular biological needs, such as the five-year difference in retirement ages and the ban on night work. the report obscures the fact that wage inequality and the subversion of labour relations to the detriment of women are at the core of the policy of the eu and of bourgeois governments in its member states to reduce the price of labour in the interests of monopoly profits. it is in the interest of the women of the popular families to come into conflict with the eu and the power of the monopolies, to fight through a strong popular alliance for the conquest of power and the organization of the economy according to the criteria of meeting their contemporary needs and not profit.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the attempt to legalise abortion as a means of ensuring sexual and reproductive health is unacceptable.
in writing. the report on the progress of equality between women and men in the eu, treats, not accidentally, the demand for women's emancipation and equality as "equality" in exploitation. it seeks greater participation of women in the labour market, to extract more surplus value for the capitalists. in the name of 'work-life balance', it promotes the intensification of the exploitation of women in parttime work and flexible working relationships without rights and starvation wages. "gender equality" is used by the eu, urban governments and capital to remove women's achievements that responded to women's particular biological needs, such as the five-year difference in retirement age limits and the ban on night work. "the report obscures the fact that wage inequality and the subversion of labour relations to the detriment of women are at the core of the policy of the eu and of bourgeois governments in its member states to reduce the wages of the workforce in the interests of monopoly profits. it is in the interest of the women of the popular families to confront the eu and the power of the monopolies, to fight through a strong popular alliance for the conquest of power and the organization of the economy according to the criteria of meeting their contemporary needs and not profit.
the commission madam president, conditional competition could lead to growth and job creation in the current phase of austerity and poverty in europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. at the same time, the european union must be careful about mergers, so that they do not create oligopolistic conditions and raise prices. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's powers to adopt legislative acts is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the european parliament is not a political body. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it does not provide for adequate protection of private individuals from support for the monopolistic banking sector.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the whole report (on the establishment of a framework for fair competition rules within the eu) as it does not provide for adequate protection of private individuals from support for the monopolistic banking sector.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report does not provide for adequate protection of private individuals from support for the monopolistic banking sector.
the commission mr president, i voted against the ecb's 2013 annual report because the report accepts and welcomes the fact that the european central bank has now become a state within a state. and this is clearly seen in the case of greece, as draghi, in violation of the treaty, is pursuing a policy of blackmail against the greek people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in voting in favour of this amendment, the european parliament is calling for an end to the conflict of interest which exists in the functioning of the european central bank, as it now considers that the ecb cannot be a member of the troika and at the same time exercise its functions as an independent monetary authority, and this development is an important step towards driving the troika out of our home country, greece, thus justifying the vote of the greek people in the elections on 25 january. the credit strangulation draghi is imposing on greece is not going to pass. the race continues.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the additional privileges of independence it grants the ecb and the attempt to unblock it from control mechanisms (e.g. the troika) will increase the arbitrariness in the decision-making of major (for the peoples of europe) issues.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the european central bank's annual report for 2013 as the granting of additional privileges of independence granted through it to the ecb and its intended disengagement from control mechanisms (e.g. troika) will increase the arbitrariness in the taking of major decisions (for the peoples of europe).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the granting of additional privileges of independence to the ecb and the attempt to unblock it from control mechanisms increases the arbitrariness in the taking of decisions of major importance (for the peoples of europe).
the commission madam president, as in the past, this text, called the 'guidelines' for the next budget, shows the lack of a common political will among the three pillars of the union. we have the council, which sets out a different policy each time, without continuity and without giving much weight to the multiannual financial framework, the commission trying to put order into the constant chaos created by the council's divergences and the european parliament complaining because the previous two do not do what they say. is this the european union we dream of? is this the driving force of europe? every year, in the same debate, on the same subject, we stress the respect of commitments and legal obligations by the council, the commission and the european parliament, so that the payment of the parties concerned is not undermined or delayed, and then hypocritically, but with emphasis, we talk about investment, growth, employment, entrepreneurship, internal and external solidarity. so let us put aside wishful thinking and deal with the real problems. there are still countries beset by crisis and poverty, member states of the union of solidarity and equality.
the commission madam president, europe is plagued by unemployment and poverty despite the 1.6 trillion euro that has been allocated to bank bailouts in recent years. however, we have 20 million unemployed in the european union. in greece the troika and the memoranda have created a huge humanitarian crisis. 40% of the population lives below the poverty line. the unemployed have reached 1.5 million. the priorities of the european union budget should therefore focus on creating jobs in entrepreneurship, strengthening social cohesion and solidarity and reducing poverty. in this context the european social fund and the other european union programmes can and must play an important role. at the same time, however, i have serious doubts about the supposed effectiveness of the juncker investment plan, which, with only eur 15 billion available, expects the new miracle to be eur 315 billion.
the commission i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this report, and i would like to thank him for the work he has done in the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. delayed payments and unallocated resources from previous financial programmes are major issues, especially in countries with reduced national resources. and delays in the start of the new programming period in cohesion policy automatically increase the risk of accumulation of resources and reduce the chances of absorption or even inefficient use. the report aims to create sustainable jobs. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers get involved in this. can we see the use of new financial instruments for smes in liquidity crisis at an early stage? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, protecting the union's financial interests and fighting fraud is a particularly important action, especially at this stage of the severe economic crisis. the fraud against the european union is a dangerous phenomenon and in some countries it is combined with the activities of the mafia of capital, the mafia capitale as they call it in italy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: of course, there are irregularities that occur not out of malice but purely out of negligence. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the fact that fraud and irregularities cost €2 billion reveals the scale of the problem that we must immediately tackle, because european citizens are not going to tolerate any more fraud and irregularities in the management of european union funds.
the commission mr president, we have recently discussed in this chamber the explosive problem of the deadly ebola virus that has struck africa, and i would like to congratulate you on your prompt response and your important contribution to the successful organization of the international ebola conference. of course, the european union's response to the deadly ebola virus has not been effective, with the death toll from the west african epidemic exceeding 9,000 last february, according to figures from the world health organization. the main problem exacerbating the ebola response in west africa is the disruption of health structures due to the demands of international lenders. that is why the debt of those countries which have been struck by ebola must be cancelled. at the same time, funds must be invested in research to finally find an ebola vaccine. finally, i would like to end by pointing out the hypocritical attitude of the west, which closed its eyes when the disease first appeared years ago, and now that the epidemic is knocking on the door of the west, the european union and the united states have finally woken up.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, the socialist group recognises the progress in the accession negotiations in montenegro and welcomes the reforms already implemented or planned by the government. the improvement achieved so far is that 16 chapters of the negotiations have been opened and two have already been provisionally closed. the government should first focus on reforms concerning the rule of law, improving public administration and increasing transparency in the political system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have called for further progress in the fight against inequality, social exclusion and high unemployment rates. we have intervened with amendments concerning the elimination of discrimination against women, the roma minority and the disabled. as regards the economy of montenegro, we focused on the need to combat tax evasion, unemployment and poverty. the difficult economic situation in the western balkans requires the implementation of ambitious programmes to strengthen competitiveness and modernise their production base. we have not neglected to draw the attention of the government to the importance of protecting the environment. finally, in view of the current challenges within and beyond europe's borders in the field of security, we considered it appropriate to commend montenegro's positive attitude in the context of the common foreign policy. we are satisfied with the final text of the resolution, which we support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the situation of the labour market in montenegro. the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament strongly supports the european perspective of all the western balkan countries. we believe that the enlargement policy strengthens stability and democracy in the region and that is why it must continue.
the commission madam president, we welcome the negotiations between montenegro and the european union to bring about the accession of montenegro to the union. greece supports montenegro's european perspective and has signed a cooperation agreement to provide expertise on european union issues as early as 2011. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. at the same time, there is a negative climate in the economy, as we have increased unemployment, and there are very serious phenomena and problems of corruption, as well as the activity of organized crime. finally, it should be noted that montenegro's european path must include the resolution of the problems it has with its neighbours, and that this resolution must be constructive and in the spirit of good neighbourliness.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i appreciate the efforts of the presidency, the commissioner and the rapporteur to help the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on its way to democracy. but i must say that the rapporteur should be more careful. first of all, it should not use the name 'macedonia'. and he should bear in mind, having seen all the documents, that his position on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is also related to the united nations resolution 817 of 1993, which defines the name of skopje and fyrom as the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. and it is not a bilateral issue, it is an international issue and as an international issue the name issue is being treated. now, i have to make the following remarks. the european commission, as the presidency has said, is seeing a backsliding in the areas of freedom of expression, the media and the independence of the judiciary. the organization for security and cooperation in europe also notes the politicization of state institutions, government control of the media even in the context of elections. there's the 25,000 wiretaps scandal. the ohrid agreement, the presidency has also mentioned, does not respect minority issues. madam president, in these circumstances and under these circumstances we cannot accept, at least, the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i wonder about today's resolution on fyrom. we are here to serve and defend at least the basic values and principles of the european union, or are we simply endorsing decisions that are in direct conflict with them? the resolution on fyrom adopted today confirms my concerns but also offends our common sense. while noting the undeniable backwardness of the fyrom in all areas of priority in relation to the copenhagen political criteria, such as the rule of law, democratic institutions, freedom of speech, media, etc., what does it do? it's summing up all these negatives that have gotten worse over the last year and calling it progress. the name issue, an international issue which remains, as it should, under the auspices of the un and which concerns regional security and stability in the context of good neighbourly relations, is arbitrarily dubbed bilateral. and the height of the absurdity is that all these negatives that prevent the opening of accession negotiations are allegedly happening and getting worse precisely because they are delayed. and he suggests they start. if that's possible! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is certain that policies which downgrade the basic values and principles of the european union, policies of double standards and of stopping wherever it is in the interests of the union, undermine the credibility of the european union in its enlargement policy.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the name of the country is not used in the name of the country in question, and that the name of the country is not used in the name of the country in question. but if he thinks that name is the only thing that is preventing him, i would tell him why he should steal the name 'macedonia' from greece and not mention it with the real name he had before that, namely 'vardarskas', which i think is very good and sound.
the commission madam president, on thursday we are called upon to vote on the progress report on fyrom. a report that is full of references to the many internal problems facing the country in the areas of the rule of law, the economy, corruption in public administration, freedom of speech. the report continually urges fyrom to solve its problems. the problem is that fyrom is far from meeting the criteria for accession to the european union. it has a corrupt government that stifles every voice of opposition and controls and intimidates public services, the judiciary and the media. i call on you to vote against the report. it is wrong to legitimize a document which seeks to abolish all the resolutions of the un, the european council and parliament on the name issue. finally, i would recommend to mrs mogherini that she respect and honour international jurisprudence and decisions. this country is provisionally called fyrom. such slip-ups are not allowed to an official representative of the european institutions, unless there is already a decision on the name by the latter.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. no, i do not agree, and accession negotiations should not be started, because this country has been carving out a 6,000-year history for years. it is therefore good that it should be incorporated under its former name, that of before 1945. this name was given to the country by titus. and everybody here knows, everybody who knows history, why it was given that name.
the commission madam president, skopje continues its provocative attitude towards greece. the skopje's irredentism is expressed in the falsification of history and the misuse of our macedonia's name. unfortunately, despite her experience, mrs mogherini has accepted skopje's propaganda and a few days ago in an interview in brussels she called skopje 'macedonia' in violation of un and eu resolutions. the rapporteur did the same a moment ago. i therefore call on both mrs mogherini and the rapporteur to make amends. mr hahn, i would like to inform you that the greek people are not going to accept the name-ripping of our macedonia by skopje. the name of skopje is also not to be given a compound name with any geographical designation. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
the european union is also an attack on the people of fyrom, madam president, and an attack on the people's rights. in particular, the participation of greece and cyprus in the european union, the pursuit of the integration of other european balkan countries based on the interventions of the european union and nato and the dismemberment of states means further involvement in imperialist projects at the expense of the peoples of the region. the redemptive propaganda and name-calling adventures are dangerous. the high representative's reference to the name 'macedonia' and the progress report add fuel to the fire. the kke supports the search for a mutually acceptable solution, with a name for all uses, including the term 'macedonia' only as a geographical indication, with mutual recognition of the inviolability of the borders, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the two countries. against the divide and rule of the european union, nato, the us, and the bourgeoisie, the people with their own power can determine their future in peace and beneficial cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, as is also implicitly clear from the report, a de facto authoritarian regime has been established in fyrom under mr gruevski, which does not meet the basic conditions for opening negotiations under the treaty on european union and which uses the name issue as a vehicle for redemption and for indirectly contesting borders with neighbouring countries. how can accession negotiations be opened with this regime?
s&d). madam president, we support the european perspective of all the western balkan countries to strengthen democracy, stability, economic development and social well-being in the wider region. however, fyrom has recently regressed in many areas, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression, independence of the media and justice. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the gruevski government must realize that it will not tolerate any provocation of redemptionism that comes from false historical narratives. it cannot hide its reformist inaction behind the fact that it has not resolved the nomenclature for reasons of internal consumption. the name issue is not a bilateral dispute between greece and fyrom, but an international, open issue defined by relevant security council resolutions.
s & d) and the the report contains a paradox. while he rightly admits that we are talking about a country that has no parliament, that has huge problems with press freedom, corruption, organized crime, the hate speech of history books towards neighboring countries, extreme nationalism towards minorities, he suddenly thinks that all of this will be solved once accession talks begin. that was the obstacle? but they've been fighting it for nine years. and a gift to the government isn't going to change the situation for the better. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, a gift for nothing. a membership that won't come soon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. whether these are now covered i leave to your judgment. what is not allowed, however, is to place the burden of responsibility on greece for what is plaguing that country.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. while acknowledging that fyrom, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, faces a number of problems, which were described in detail just now by commissioner hahn, with regard to the functioning of democracy and respect for fundamental human rights and minority rights, it also argues that the only obstacle to obtaining a date for the opening of negotiations is the bilateral problem with greece. the problem is not bilateral. it is international. i grew up, studied, worked in macedonia and i know exactly what is happening there. imagine a candidate country which has a parliament where the opposition does not sit in the seats, but attempts to create a parallel institution. imagine a candidate country whose prime minister is accused of involvement in a phone-hacking scandal involving a close relative of the person. imagine a candidate country where the media is persecuted for choosing to express other views. in this country the largest ethnic minority is not treated equally. are you sure we want such a country in the european union? i'll vote against it.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. mr president, in the course of a minute you have said the name 'macedonia' five or six times. would you like me to invite you to greece to come to vergina, to come to amphipolis, to see what macedonia is? with him making huge statues with alexander the great, you're not called macedonia.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, the honourable member is right in saying that fyrom has been recognised as a country by that name and can therefore be referred to as such. but he cannot, as president, when he chairs a committee, be referred to by the name they have recognised as a country. he is obliged to indicate it as fyrom. also, two questions: does he know what redemptionism means? and, since he brought up the issue of good neighborliness, i'd like to say something to you. if you were in my position, as a greek, and someone came to your country and put a flag on a mountain, such as mount olympus, which is a historic mountain for us, what would be your position on the issues of good neighbourliness that you mention in relation to this fyrom official?
s & d) and the the european union is a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, this name has not been recognised by the european union. let me say that i am elected as a member of the european parliament in greece and i am from macedonia, so i wonder if i should specify which macedonia i am from. this game of redemption is a game for commercial and historical reasons. newly built today's monuments cannot be called macedonian ancient monuments, they are copies, and let me tell you that the macedonian language is not spoken in skopje. so there are a lot of issues. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the problem, my dear colleague, is unfortunately that of skopje and not macedonia. we have made a great effort. we'll be at every table to resolve this issue. the reason they don't want it resolved is for their own internal consumption. the european union will therefore do well to protect itself by bringing this problem to its own group, if you will, and to its own table of dialogue, so that it can be resolved. because it seems that while we are willing to be resolved, there is not the same willingness on the other side. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to say that it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. i would like to say that i am from macedonia, without specifying which macedonia i am from.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the it is the inalienable right of every nation to define itself, its inalienable right to determine the name it wants. there would be no problem if it was called greece and new greece and democratic greece and whatever else you want. the problem arises from the moment they steal twenty centuries of civilization and say it's theirs. it's a big problem when you steal another people's culture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do they respect or do they not respect the sovereignty of greece? the neighbouring people are undoubtedly important. we can't drive out the neighboring people, they're nearby. we can divorce our wife, we can banish our child, but the neighboring people must be respected. so let's respect him.
the commission madam president, i welcome the accession negotiations between serbia and the european union, but i should like to say that i would have preferred to have given the serbian people the right to decide by referendum on the negotiation of their future membership of the european union. greece supports serbia's european path and has since 2010 concluded cooperation agreements aimed at strengthening and accelerating the accession process. the european union must not allow certain member states to impede serbia's european path and must agree to open up new funds for negotiation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the adequate fulfilment of the political criteria certainly demonstrates that serbia is implementing its commitments in the area of the rule of law, public administration and economic governance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, 16 years ago a number of eu member states together with the usa decided to violate the principle of no change of borders in europe and to forcibly seize part of serbian territory to turn it into a protectorate. the administration of kosovo has since proved to be a continuing european failure, as the latest report from the european commission shows. the region's gdp is growing, but the increase is being funneled into organized crime, while the impoverishment of the people is worsening and creating a wave of flight to europe, with the population falling from 2,200,000 in 2009 to 1,800,000 in 2012. exports are virtually non-existent, unemployment - despite immigration - is at 30% and corruption is rife. the union must recognize its failure and limit its involvement in kosovo. we're doing more harm than good there.
the commission madam president, the activities of extremist islamist elements in kosovo are a matter of grave concern in the region. there have already been mass arrests of suspected participants in military operations in iraq and syria. the role of certain ngos originating in saudi arabia and qatar is also problematic. the increased waves of migration from kosovo to eu countries with large albanian minorities are increasing the concern of eu citizens. at the same time, the revival of albanian nationalism is particularly worrying, as tirana is using kosovo as a lever to promote the redemptive idea of greater albania, which is demanding a change of borders in the balkans and territories belonging to greece. finally, madam president, i wonder how kosovo can possibly become a member of the european union when five member states of the european union do not even recognize kosovo as a state entity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i ask mr weber to clarify the matter exactly. he's asking the greek people to overturn his verdict, yes or no?
the commission the european semester, the country-specific recommendations, the stability pact, which are permanent memoranda of understanding with iron discipline, in the face of the needs of the people, will be discussed. even powerful france, without a memorandum, was put under surveillance. portugal, ireland and spain no longer have a memorandum, but they have dual supervision, one after the memorandum and the other in the context of the european semester. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is getting worse, not better. it cannot solve even the most urgent problems of peoples' survival. only in the struggle to free ourselves from it and the shackles of capitalist exploitation is there hope for the peoples.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 40% of the greek people live below the poverty line, while the unemployed have reached 1.5 million. the responsibilities of the former president of the eurogroup in this situation are enormous. in fact, you yourself acknowledged them in a recent interview. so instead of a change of attitude towards greece, the sacred alliance of creditors continues its blackmail policy. so, while the european central bank is lavishly spending over 60 billion euros a month buying government bonds, draghi is tightening the noose around greece, causing a dangerous credit asphyxiation. mr juncker and mr weber, you must decide. the greek people, in the elections of 25 january, decided to change course and are fighting unitedly for the cancellation of the humiliating debt and the demand for german reparations. mr juncker, the greek people are no longer taking orders from the international creditors that the commission is so well represented for.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i welcome the approval of the strategic investment fund by the finance ministers. the package, worth eur 315 billion, is a vital boost for the member states most affected by the crisis and in financial difficulty. in the case of my country, everyone must recognize that the greek people have proved, through their sacrifices and their daily struggle, that they deserve a better path for the country, a path out of the crisis, a path of development and prosperity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new fund is able to meet the needs of the community. to create new jobs, to support the creation of growth infrastructure, to enhance the sustainability of our economies and to boost the real economy. we must give greater emphasis to supporting small and mediumsized enterprises and strengthening the middle class, which has been the backbone of society for decades. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year, and the council's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. the eu must rise to the occasion, propose solutions and ways forward to national governments, so that we can build together a modern, competitive and investment-friendly environment in our countries, with realism and a sense of responsibility.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. mr president, once again the debate on the european semester is centred around the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the reality, i'm afraid, is painful. as the popular wisdom says, our sufferings have not become lessons. the european union is thus rife with inequality and unemployment, along with anti-european forces. so i'm afraid we have no other time, no other choice. we must change policy immediately, put an end to the blind obsession with austerity. this, mr president, will only be possible with real investment in sustainable, green growth, such as renewable energy, the circular economy and the efficient management of resources. the benefits, as you all know, will be manifold: job creation and improved competitiveness. but above all, improving health, the environment and our quality of life.
the commission mr president, we are talking about the annual growth survey for 2015. the report starts with the argument that europe must remain committed to the same model of the social market economy. but this model, gentlemen, has already failed. in those countries where it has been implemented, not only has it not ensured sustainable economic growth, but it has inflated their debt to the benefit of the creditors. you must understand that this endless policy is going nowhere. the next generation has nothing to look forward to. no jobs, no economic growth, not even the right to dream. just uncertainty and debt. debts that are not assigned to them, because they are not responsible for them. the responsibility lies solely with the wrong policies which you selfishly continue to enforce and support. greece has a new government which the greek people have entrusted with their judgment. politically, we are separated by an abyss with this government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so what do you suggest? more of the cure for disaster, more reforms, more measures and a small margin for growth.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. the maastricht treaty requirement that public debt should not exceed 60% of gnp is not being met by almost any member state. the requirements of the fiscal stability pact that are supposed to complement these objectives are also not respected by more than five member states. in essence, the european institutions commit national governments to pursuing utopian goals in order to impose austerity, not as a means of combating over-indebtedness, but rather as a means of forcing a social redistribution from the haves to the have nots at the european level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the european semester is an institutional way of limiting the sovereignty of the member states of the union. the parliaments of the countries of the union are now deprived of sovereign rights in the formulation of national budgets, as the eurogroup, an unelected body, has become their close ally by imposing merkel's austerity. at the same time, the commission and the eurogroup are applying double standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main element today, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the european semester is the enormous democratic deficit it has created in the name of reducing budgetary deficits. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on the common system of import rules for certain third countries, and concerns mainly the necessary technical corrections. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i am opposed to the globalisation of import rules.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against the globalisation of import rules and therefore i am against the common import regime for certain third countries.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of common rules for imports from certain third countries, because a significant number of wto member countries, such as armenia, vietnam, russia and tajikistan, are arbitrarily and discreetly removed from the relevant annex to that regulation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the globalisation of import rules is not moving in the right direction
s&d), in writing. ‒ the proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without changing their substance and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the signing of new association agreements has been shown to exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the over-voting of bloated association agreements has been shown to exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting europe. i therefore vote against the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, because article 2 of the regulation under vote sets out concessions for fish and fishery products, which is going to cause enormous economic damage to greek fishermen who have been impoverished by the memorandum.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the over-voting of bloated association agreements has been shown to exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting europe.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance, and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i believe that the existence of eu tariff quotas for agricultural or livestock products significantly restricts free trade.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because the existence of (proposed) union tariff quotas for agricultural or livestock products significantly restricts free trade.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report because the opening of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and rye, as well as bread in general and other residues, is certainly going to harm the eu's and in particular the countries of the european south's farmers and herders who have been impoverished by austerity.
in writing. ‒ the existence of union tariff quotas for agricultural or livestock products significantly restricts free trade.
in writing. the proposal on the importation into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey is merely a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i do not want to contribute to any trade with turkey, especially with products produced in greece.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to any trade with turkey, especially for products produced in my country, greece.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, because the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey will irreparably damage the economic interests of greek and cypriot farmers who have been impoverished by the memoranda. moreover, since ankara is systematically violating international law vis-à-vis greece and cyprus and refusing to abide by the terms and conditions of its pre-accession process, it is obvious that it is not entitled to any favourable treatment of its products by the eu. on the contrary, the eu should have taken drastic restrictive measures against turkish imports into the union until turkey fully complied with its international obligations towards greece and cyprus.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ products produced in eu member states should be given preference and supported by the corresponding third countries
s&d), in writing. ‒ the proposal to introduce a concession for turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for 1998 for hazelnuts and to suspend certain concessions is merely a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance, and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i do not want to contribute to any trade with turkey, especially with products produced in greece.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to any trade with turkey, especially for products produced in my country, greece.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions for the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, because the report under vote suspends the two tariff quotas provided for in annex 1 to the regulation and now allows the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey, which irreparably damages the economic interests of greek and cypriot farmers who have been impoverished by the memoranda. moreover, since ankara is systematically violating international law vis-à-vis greece and cyprus and refusing to comply with the terms and conditions of its pre-accession process, it is obvious that it is not entitled to any favourable treatment of its products by the eu, as it is being promoted by the report under vote. on the contrary, the eu should have taken drastic restrictive measures against turkish imports into the union until turkey fully complies with its international obligations towards greece and cyprus.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ products produced in eu member states should be given preference and supported by the corresponding third countries
in writing. ‒ the the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) entered into force in 1952. the eu member states in the mediterranean and black sea regions are also parties to this agreement. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the union state aid rules to the measures in question. among other improvements, the revised agreement adopts sanctions to address non-compliance by member states and establishes a mechanism for settling disputes between the parties. in view of the mutual interest in the development and rational use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black sea regions, i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the amended agreement.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i was present at the recommendation because i agree with the need to limit smuggling and the proper and environmentally friendly management of the mediterranean and black sea biodiversity. i think, however, that some points need further clarification.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am here today to speak on the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, because i agree initially with the need to limit illegal fishing and with the proper and environmentally friendly management of the biodiversity of the mediterranean and the black sea, but i believe that some points need further clarification.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and the protection of the marine ecosystem in which they are found play an important role in the context of blue development and, more generally, in the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the mediterranean basin.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, because the new agreement sets a clear overall objective concerning the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and better defines the tasks of the gfcm, which include promoting common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of no-fishing areas, and the collection and dissemination of data.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there is an absolute need to limit smuggling in accordance with sound and environmentally friendly management of the mediterranean and black sea biodiversity, without ambiguities and gaps.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i am in favour of treating meps in the same way as other citizens in any case where judicial intervention is required.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of treating meps in the same way as other citizens in all cases where judicial intervention is required.
ecr), in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i am in favour of treating meps in the same way as other citizens in any case where judicial intervention is required.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of treating meps in the same way as other citizens in all cases where judicial intervention is required.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sergei stanishev following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because crossborder mobility is not a solution to the problem of unemployment because it weakens the union's already affected countries by losing their healthy workforce.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget, section iii, as a whole, because cross-border mobility is not a solution to the problem of unemployment, because it weakens the union's already affected countries by losing their healthy workforce.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report because the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget, section iii, do not address the adverse social and economic effects of the economic crisis. so despite the €1.6 trillion in bank bailouts, the eu is filled with armies of unemployed. in addition, the troika and the memoranda have created a huge humanitarian crisis in greece, where 40% of the population lives below the poverty line and the unemployed have reached 1.5 million. budgetary priorities should therefore focus on job creation, entrepreneurship, strengthening social cohesion and solidarity and poverty reduction.
in writing. the kke voted against the european parliament's report on the eu budget guidelines for 2016 because it moves in the anti-people direction of strengthening the monopoly groups at the expense of the people. proposals to change the eu and its character as a union of capital through negotiations are disorienting the people. but the exit from the euro, coordinated or not, without the people in power, with the monopolies in place, does not serve the people's interests. the committee on budgets voted against the amendment. these are proposals which call on the people to invest in alternatives to capitalist management which favour sections of the bourgeoisie in order to give a new impetus to capitalist development. such proposals are deceptive and ultimately lead to the subjugation of the people to capital and the perpetuation of its power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but only the people with their own flag and not a foreign flag can give the solution to their own benefit and not to the monopolies: with a strong popular alliance for disengagement from the eu, unilateral debt cancellation and socialization of the means of production, with the people in power.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ cross-border mobility is not a solution to the problem of unemployment, because it weakens the already affected countries of the union by losing their healthy workforce.
in writing. the kke voted against the european parliament's report on the eu budget guidelines for 2016 because it moves in the anti-people direction of strengthening the monopoly groups at the expense of the people. proposals to change the eu and its character as a union of capital through negotiations are disorienting the people. but, also, the exit from the euro, coordinated or not, without the people in power, with the monopolies in place, does not serve the popular interests. the committee on budgets voted against the amendment. these are proposals which call on the people to invest in alternatives to capitalist management which favour sections of the bourgeoisie in order to give a new impetus to capitalist development. such proposals are deceptive and ultimately lead to the subjugation of the people to capital and the perpetuation of its power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but only the people with their own flag and not a foreign flag can give the solution to their own benefit and not to the monopolies: with a strong popular alliance for disengagement from the eu, unilateral debt cancellation and socialization of the means of production, with the people in power.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report as it proposes that the eu should clearly define the minimum and maximum prison sentences to be imposed on all participating member states, which is a major blow to the sovereign rights of each member state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the 2013 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud as a whole because it calls for a clear definition of the minimum and maximum prison sentences to be imposed in all participating member states, which is a major blow to the sovereign rights of each member state.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud, because it supports and welcomes the creation of anti-fraud coordination services (afcos) in the member states as required by article 3 (4) of the new olaf regulation.
in writing. the kke voted against the report on the protection of the economic interests of the eu and the fight against fraud against it, because it exploits an existing situation that is conceived, inflated and reproduced by the capitalist system of exploitation itself, its own mechanisms (as it admits), to escalate the attack, especially the tax, against the working people. the report calls for the intensification and tightening of the tax hunt for self-employed small businesses, adding to the eu's repressive structure and the european public prosecutor's office, a european union judicial mechanism, which legitimises criminal prosecution and repression across the eu and its member states. fraud against public property is reprehensible and must be punished in the strictest way, but the eu and its governments not only leave the big business groups untouched, but legitimize the plundering of the people's property by them with "legal" tax breaks, subsidies, concessions, privatizations, immunity for what they do to the detriment of workers, with tax havens inside and outside the eu based on the same eu "legality" of the free movement of capital that all the european treaties guarantee.
in writing. ‒ the definition of minimum and maximum prison sentences planned to be imposed in all participating member states constitutes a major blow to the sovereign rights of each member state.
in writing. the kke voted against the report on the protection of the economic interests of the eu and the fight against fraud against it, because it exploits an existing situation that is conceived, inflated and reproduced by the capitalist system of exploitation itself, its own mechanisms (as it admits), to escalate the attack, especially the tax, against the working people. the report calls for the intensification and tightening of the tax hunt for self-employed small businesses, adding to the eu's repressive structure and the european public prosecutor's office, a european union judicial mechanism, which legitimises criminal prosecution and repression across the eu and its member states. fraud against public property is reprehensible and must be punished in the strictest way, but the eu and its governments not only leave the big business groups untouched, but legitimize the plundering of the people's property by them with "legal" tax breaks, subsidies, concessions, privatizations, immunity for what they do to the detriment of workers, with tax havens inside and outside the eu based on the very eu "legality" of the free movement of capital that all the european treaties guarantee.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because, apart from the fact that the enlargement of the eu will exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting the countries of the south, the report emphasises the participation of montenegro in nato.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on montenegro, because, apart from the fact that the eu's enlargement would exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting the countries of the south, the report emphasises montenegro's membership of nato.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on montenegro, as greece supports the european perspective of montenegro and has already signed a cooperation agreement since 2011 to provide expertise on european union issues.
in writing. the reports on the accession process of the western balkan countries, serbia, montenegro, macedonia, call for the eu and their bourgeois governments to accelerate anti-people reforms in these countries, targeting workers' and people's rights, removing any obstacles to the establishment of business groups and their profitability. the accession process of these countries is exacerbating all the problems of the workers, intensifying their exploitation for the benefit of the monopolies, involving them in the dangerous imperialist plans of the eu-usa-nato and the competitions raging in the wider region for the resources of wealth production, with unforeseeable painful consequences to their detriment. the peoples of the balkans have an interest in strengthening and coordinating their struggle against the eu and nato, against every imperialist alliance of capital and the capitalist path of development, opposing their own popular alliance for power, which will open the way to peace, mutually beneficial cooperation and solidarity, for the people's prosperity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ any enlargement of the eu will exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting the countries of the south, without succeeding in improving the living conditions of its citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on montenegro, as the country has made significant strides in recent years and has made substantial progress during the accession negotiations. the ep should support this effort, which strengthens stability, security and democracy in the region.
in writing. the reports on the accession process of the western balkan countries, serbia, montenegro, macedonia, call for the eu and their bourgeois governments to accelerate anti-people reforms in these countries, targeting workers' and people's rights, removing any obstacles to the establishment of business groups and their profitability. the accession process of these countries is exacerbating all the problems of the workers, intensifying their exploitation for the benefit of the monopolies, involving them in the dangerous imperialist plans of the eu-usa-nato and the competitions raging in the wider region for the resources of wealth production, with unforeseeable painful consequences to their detriment. the peoples of the balkans have an interest in strengthening and coordinating their struggle against the eu and nato, against every imperialist alliance of capital and the capitalist path of development, opposing their own popular alliance for power, which will open the way to peace, mutually beneficial cooperation and solidarity, for the people's prosperity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because, contrary to what was proposed in the progress report, the name issue should not be limited to bilateral level and be independent of skopje's accession process.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the 2014 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, because the name resolution should not be limited to the bilateral level and be independent of the accession process in skopje.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution because skopje continues its provocative attitude towards greece, with skopje's irredentism expressed in the falsification of history and the trampling of our macedonia's name. greece also does not recognize the skopje formation. the greek people will not accept that the name of our macedonia is being stolen from skopje. the name skopje is not to be combined with any geographical indication. i am absolutely opposed to any future accession of skopje to the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it.
in writing. the reports on the accession process of the western balkan countries, serbia, montenegro, macedonia, call for the eu and their bourgeois governments to accelerate anti-people reforms in these countries, targeting workers' and people's rights, removing any obstacles to the establishment of business groups and their profitability. the accession process of these countries is exacerbating all the problems of the workers, intensifying their exploitation for the benefit of the monopolies, involving them in the dangerous imperialist plans of the eu-usa-nato and the competitions raging in the wider region for the resources of wealth production, with unforeseeable painful consequences to their detriment. the peoples of the balkans have an interest in strengthening and coordinating their struggle against the eu and nato, against every imperialist alliance of capital and the capitalist path of development, opposing their own popular alliance for power, which will open the way to peace, mutually beneficial cooperation and solidarity, for the people's prosperity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report tends to abolish all the resolutions of the un, the european council and parliament on the name issue, which is unacceptable.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted against the progress report on macedonia because once again parliament is sending the wrong message to the applicant country. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, including the european information and communication network, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. it must be made clear to all. the situation in macedonia is the responsibility of the government itself and its intransigence both internally and in relations with its neighbours. as for the name issue, only two things: firstly, the name issue is not bilateral, as some claim. it is international, as the united nations has explicitly recognized. secondly, no greek government will agree to the opening of accession negotiations if the matter has not been resolved beforehand. hiding problems under the carpet has proven over and over again to be a failed practice. the fact that greece is leaving because it is exercising a legitimate right is hypocritical, to say the least, especially when other countries have in the past refused to enlarge on matters of much lesser importance. in the name of a supposed stability, we will not accept any distortion of our history.
in writing. the reports on the accession process of the western balkan countries, serbia, montenegro, macedonia, call for the eu and their bourgeois governments to accelerate anti-people reforms in these countries, targeting workers' and people's rights, removing any obstacles to the establishment of business groups and their profitability. the accession process of these countries is exacerbating all the problems of the workers, intensifying their exploitation for the benefit of the monopolies, involving them in the dangerous imperialist plans of the eu-usa-nato and the competitions raging in the wider region for the resources of wealth production, with unforeseeable painful consequences to their detriment. the peoples of the balkans have an interest in strengthening and coordinating their struggle against the eu and nato, against every imperialist alliance of capital and the capitalist path of development, opposing their own popular alliance for power, which will open the way to peace, mutually beneficial cooperation and solidarity, for the people's prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european perspective of all the western balkan countries as long as the political enlargement of the eu strengthens stability and democracy in the region. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the free movement of persons.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the european parliament has also called for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on serbia, as the proposed eu enlargement will exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting the countries of the south, without improving the living conditions of serbs.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report for serbia, as greece supports serbia's european path and has concluded cooperation agreements since 2010 with the aim of strengthening and accelerating its accession path.
in writing. the reports on the accession process of the western balkan countries, serbia, montenegro, macedonia, call for the eu and their bourgeois governments to accelerate anti-people reforms in these countries, targeting workers' and people's rights, removing any obstacles to the establishment of business groups and their profitability. the accession process of these countries is exacerbating all the problems of the workers, intensifying their exploitation for the benefit of the monopolies, involving them in the dangerous imperialist plans of the eu-usa-nato and the competitions raging in the wider region for the resources of wealth production, with unforeseeable painful consequences to their detriment. the peoples of the balkans have an interest in strengthening and coordinating their struggle against the eu and nato, against every imperialist alliance of capital and the capitalist path of development, opposing their own popular alliance for power, which will open the way to peace, mutually beneficial cooperation and solidarity, for the people's prosperity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu's enlargement will exacerbate the economic crisis in the southern countries, without achieving any improvement in the living conditions of the serbs.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on serbia and i for my part welcome the opening of accession negotiations which began last year. serbia has made significant progress in recent years and this deserves our respect and support. the opening of new chapters should continue as the country's reforms progress. of course, there are areas where more needs to be done, but i am convinced that serbia has made substantial progress to date and we all have to reward those efforts.
in writing. the reports on the accession process of the western balkan countries, serbia, montenegro, macedonia, call for the eu and their bourgeois governments to accelerate anti-people reforms in these countries, targeting workers' and people's rights, removing any obstacles to the establishment of business groups and their profitability. the accession process of these countries is exacerbating all the problems of the workers, intensifying their exploitation for the benefit of the monopolies, involving them in the dangerous imperialist plans of the eu-usa-nato and the competitions raging in the wider region for the resources of wealth production, with unforeseeable painful consequences to their detriment. the peoples of the balkans have an interest in strengthening and coordinating their struggle against the eu and nato, against every imperialist alliance of capital and the capitalist path of development, opposing their own popular alliance for power, which will open the way to peace, mutually beneficial cooperation and solidarity, for the people's prosperity.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european perspective of the western balkans as the eu enlargement policy strengthens stability and democracy in the region and therefore must be continued. however, i think that the european parliament's resolution should take account of the fact that five eu member states, including greece, have not recognised kosovo as a state. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the process of european integration of kosovo, because, apart from the fact that the enlargement of the eu will exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting the countries of the south, i am opposed to the recognition of kosovo.
ecr), in writing. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. in addition, the activity of extremist islamic elements in kosovo is a matter of grave concern in the region. there have already been mass arrests of suspected participants in military operations in iraq and syria. the revival of albanian nationalism is particularly worrying, as tirana is using kosovo as a lever to promote the redemptive idea of greater albania, which is demanding a change of borders in balkan territories belonging to greece.
in writing. the eu-kosovo stability and association agreement is part of the eu-us-nato imperialist plans to use and upgrade this euro-atlantic protectorate in the western balkans and the wider region, increasing the risks for the peoples. the permanent presence of eulex, the eu's largest police and judicial force in the region, only guarantees the continuation of poverty, misery and exploitation, as evidenced by its interconnection with business groups, organised crime and corruption, the natural consequence of the imperialist intervention of the eu and its nato and us allies. the european parliament seeks to play a more active role in pressing for the recognition of the eurasian protectorate by eu member states that have not yet done so, and for its full and unconditional recognition by serbia, in the framework of the agreement imposed with a "gun to the head" by the eu, under the blackmail and pressure to continue the eu accession process of serbia, which serves part of the serbian bourgeoisie. it is further proof that the choice and commitments of the bourgeoisie in the process of closer association and eu accession only portend new evils for the peoples of the balkans.
in writing. ‒ any enlargement of the eu will exacerbate the economic crisis afflicting the countries of the south, without succeeding in improving the living conditions of its citizens
in writing. the eu-kosovo stability and association agreement is part of the eu-us-nato imperialist plans to use and upgrade this euro-atlantic protectorate in the western balkans and the wider region, increasing the risks for the peoples. the permanent presence of eulex, the eu's largest police and judicial force in the region, only guarantees the continuation of poverty, misery and exploitation, as evidenced by its interconnection with business groups, organised crime and corruption, the natural consequence of the imperialist intervention of the eu and its nato and us allies. the european parliament seeks to play a more active role in pressing for the recognition of the eurasian protectorate by eu member states that have not yet done so, and for its full and unconditional recognition by serbia, in the framework of the agreement imposed with a "gun to the head" by the eu, under the blackmail and pressure to continue the eu accession process of serbia, which serves part of the serbian bourgeoisie. it is further proof that the choice and commitments of the bourgeoisie in the process of closer association and eu accession only portend new evils for the peoples of the balkans.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the european semester process is undemocratic and violates the right of each member state and its people to decide their policies in accordance with their economic and social situation, as well as their rights and aspirations.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2015. the european semester process is undemocratic and violates the right of each member state and its people to decide their policies in accordance with their economic and social situation, as well as their rights and aspirations. i do not want any more structural reforms aimed at weakening the south.
in writing. i am voting against the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: annual growth review 2015, because the european semester is an institutional way of limiting the sovereignty of the euro area member states. the parliaments of the eurozone countries are now deprived of sovereign rights in shaping national budgets, as the eurogroup, an unelected body, has become their crutch by imposing merkel austerity. the main element today, in relation to the european semester, is the huge democratic deficit it has created in the name of reducing budgetary deficits. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
in writing. the reports on the implementation of the 2015 european semester and enhanced economic governance support its three anti-people pillars, identified by the eu and its institutions: investment - acceleration of anti-people reforms - extension of cuts in social spending. the european parliament, as a steadfast voice of the interests of the bourgeoisie, is taking the lead in promoting the reforms needed by capital around three main axes: a) reducing corporate taxation and social security obligations; b) liberalising the eu's single capital market in sectors critical to the profitability of groups, such as services, the digital market, energy, research and innovation; c) better linking education with businesses and their needs; d) reducing the cost of labour; c) new strikes on public social security and welfare systems; d) labour relations and employment rights; e) increasing labour mobility - with a need for a stable labour market, a transnational level of education and training; e) increasing the level of social security and social security; e) increasing the level of social protection and social protection; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the general public. it is in the hands of the peoples to organise their struggle to recover the losses of the crisis, for their contemporary needs, with a break from the eu and the people in power.
in writing. ‒ the the european semester process is undemocratic and violates the right of each member state and its people to decide their policies in accordance with their economic and social situation, as well as their rights and aspirations. we do not want any more structural reforms aimed at weakening the south.
in writing. the reports on the implementation of the 2015 european semester and enhanced economic governance support its three anti-people pillars, identified by the eu and its institutions: investment - acceleration of anti-people reforms - extension of cuts in social spending. the european parliament, as a steadfast voice of the interests of the bourgeoisie, is taking the lead in promoting the reforms needed by capital around three main axes: a) reducing corporate taxation and social security obligations; b) liberalising the eu's single capital market in sectors critical to the profitability of groups, such as services, the digital market, energy, research and innovation; c) better linking education with businesses and their needs; d) reducing the cost of labour; c) new strikes on public social security and welfare systems; d) labour relations and employment rights; e) increasing labour mobility - with a need for a stable labour market, a transnational level of education and training; e) increasing the level of social security and social security; e) increasing the level of social protection and social protection; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the general public. it is in the hands of the peoples to organise their struggle to recover the losses of the crisis, for their contemporary needs, with a break from the eu and the people in power.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the employment committee report refers to the social aspects of the annual report on development presented by the european commission. it called for more growth-friendly policies aimed at creating quality jobs. it also calls for the establishment of a pan-european minimum income system and calls for policies to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the activities of the european ombudsman. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report of the employment committee entitled 'european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015'.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it promotes the economic policy that led to the destruction of my country. the union needs a radical change in its economic outlook, otherwise it will face structural problems.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: employment and social aspects in the annual growth review 2015, because the report promotes the economic policy that led to the disaster of our country. the union needs a radical change in its economic outlook, otherwise it will face structural problems.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report because the european semester is an institutional way of limiting the sovereignty of the eurozone member states. the parliaments of the eurozone countries are now deprived of sovereign rights in shaping national budgets, as the eurogroup, an unelected body, has become their crutch by imposing merkel austerity. the main element today in relation to the european semester is the huge democratic deficit it has created in the name of reducing budgetary deficits. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report promotes an economic policy that has led to the destruction of our country. the european union needs a radical change in its economic outlook, otherwise it will face structural problems.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i believe that the common labour market will weaken the countries with weak economies even more.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015, because the common labour market will weaken countries with weak economies even more.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour because i believe that the single market is at the heart of europe's competitiveness and its greatest economic asset. europe needs a single market that can meet the challenges of the 21st century, enabling european businesses to remain competitive and consumers to have access to high quality products and services from across the eu. the eu should therefore support member states to expand their crossborder trade in services and empower citizens to participate in the single market. but we need clearer and stricter governance of the single market. to this end, it is necessary to establish a transparent and predictable framework in which the potential negative and positive effects of member states in implementation and enforcement are adequately reflected on a regular basis, and such strict governance of the single market should be organised in an annual governance cycle and should be examined in the context of the european semester. given the economic importance of the single market, a regular assessment of its situation will provide a more complete picture.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report because it also legitimises the implementation of the european semester 2015 in the area of the single market. in particular, the european semester is an institutional way of limiting the sovereignty of the euro area member states. the parliaments of the eurozone countries are now deprived of sovereign rights in shaping national budgets, as the eurogroup, an unelected body, has become their crutch by imposing merkel austerity. the dominant element today in relation to the european semester is the huge democratic deficit it has created in the name of reducing budget deficits. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the common labour market weakens countries with weak economies even more.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015, as the single market and the digital single market should be seen as two key tools for restoring economic growth and creating quality jobs in the eu. the commission should respond to parliament's request and present the report on the completion of the single market as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because any measure against child pornography is welcome. the only objection i have is the need for even more stringent measures against those who commit such heinous crimes.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i agree and vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on combating the sexual abuse of children online . any measure against child pornography is welcome. the only objection i have is the need for even more stringent measures against those who commit such heinous crimes. my permanent position is to reinstate the death penalty for proven child rapists.
s&d), in writing. ‒ combating sexual abuse of children on the internet i supported this motion for a resolution because sexual abuse and exploitation of children in general, but also in particular on the internet, where they are potentially exposed to specific risks, are very serious violations of fundamental human rights, as laid down in the eu charter of fundamental rights and in the 1989 international convention on the rights of the child.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution because the fight against the sexual abuse of children online must be immediate, decisive and continuous. we can't leave our children at the mercy of various circuits and criminals. this is why we need strict and effective legislation. the european union's member states must coordinate their action, and the european commission has an important role to play in this. however, to be effective, it requires implementation of the relevant eu directive on the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. at the same time, the law enforcement and judicial authorities of the eu member states must become even more effective in tackling cybercrime that knows no borders.
in writing. the kke condemns in the strongest and most unequivocal terms the crimes of sexual abuse of children, in any form, by any means and by any means. it is in favour of the most severe punishment for the perpetrators and those who are in any way involved in such heinous criminal acts. it considers that effective prevention, information and protection measures for children, particularly in the use of the internet, are of paramount importance. pornography is only part of a vast porn industry, like sex tourism, that cultivates the most sickly perversions for profit. the resolution not only hides the causes but also exploits the huge problem of child sexual abuse as a pretext to promote the strengthening of reactionary eu repression mechanisms such as europol. what protection, information and prevention can there be for the children of the unemployed, of working-class families living in poverty ? what kind of protection of children on the internet is there when it is controlled by monopoly groups while the eu and governments ensure their profitability? capitalism cannot face the decay and perversion inherent in its exploitative character. we need a different socioeconomic system, one that is centred on people and their needs, with people owning the wealth they produce.
in writing. ‒ sexual abuse of children online is reprehensible and therefore any measure to tackle it is welcome.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ international cooperation on the protection of children online should be a top policy objective at european level. the dangers of the internet to children are many and complex. the commission and the member states should launch an awareness-raising campaign immediately to enable children, as well as support parents and educators, to understand and manage online risks in order to protect children's online safety. at the same time, there is a need for effective cooperation between member states to investigate, dismantle and prosecute child sexual abuse networks more effectively.
in writing. the kke condemns in the strongest and most unequivocal terms the crimes of sexual abuse of children, in any form, by any means and by any means. it is in favour of the most severe punishment for the perpetrators and those who are in any way involved in such heinous criminal acts. it considers that effective prevention, information and protection measures for children, particularly in the use of the internet, are of paramount importance. pornography is only part of a vast porn industry, like sex tourism, that cultivates the most sickly perversions for profit. the resolution not only hides the causes but also exploits the huge problem of child sexual abuse as a pretext to promote the strengthening of reactionary eu law enforcement mechanisms such as europol. what protection, information and prevention can there be for the children of the unemployed, of working-class families living in poverty ? what kind of protection of children on the internet is there when it is controlled by monopoly groups while the eu and governments ensure their profitability? capitalism cannot face the decay and perversion inherent in its exploitative character. we need a different socioeconomic system, one that is centred on people and their needs, with people owning the wealth they produce.
the commission madam president, one of the main objectives of the common foreign and security policy is to improve the european union's contribution to the defence of the territorial integrity of the member states. the best way to achieve this objective is to strengthen the military capabilities of the armed forces of the member countries. the european union's operational requirements will thus be met and the forces will be able to acquire the operational readiness required to carry out petersberg-type missions, i.e. humanitarian and peacekeeping missions. in addition, they will be able to react quickly to a crisis and move in the predicted 72-hour time of battle groups, battle formations. we must not fall into the trap of abolishing national powers and creating common european powers, as i understand mr juncker to claim in order to deal with russia. any problems with russia can be dealt with by honest political dialogue and not by military means.
the commission madam president, the juncker declaration on the transformation of the euro-army into a permanent body, the ever greater coordination and joint action of the european union with nato is a precursor to the intensification of the european union's aggression against the peoples and the repression of their struggles. the european union and its governments are being 'killed', nato is being 'killed', peoples are being slaughtered and countries are being dismembered for imperialist interests, as in 'ukraine, libya, iraq, africa. the people of the european union and nato are not safe. the aggression of turkey against greece and cyprus in recent days is proof of this. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. no self-deception, you know? the peoples must be vigilant and in their struggle against imperialist plans to break the shackles of the european union and nato by overthrowing the system of exploitation with their own power.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. they falsify history, they smear the name of macedonia and they are engaged in redemptive action to change the borders in the balkans by claiming greek territory. unfortunately, despite your experience, you too have fallen victim to skopje's propaganda and so a few days ago in brussels, at a press conference, you called skopje 'macedonia', in violation of the un and eu resolutions. you should therefore have referred to skopje as fyrom, as that name is recognised by the european union. so i would like to hear you give an explanation for your lack of this. i also call on you, here in the european parliament, to recant and make amends, because what you said in your interview has caused a huge wave of protest against you in greece. as good accounts make good friends, i await your answer to the question i asked you.
the commission mr president, how would you describe an organisation which loudly proclaims that 'democratic regimes are characterised by respect for the rule of law, freedom of speech, respect for human rights, an independent judiciary and an impartial administration', but when it is shown that one of its members is in flagrant breach of the above principles, for political reasons, it willfully turns a blind eye? in this area we had pointed out with evidence the intervention of the then fascist coalition government, and of prime minister samaras himself, in the alleged greek blind justice for the arrest of the leader as well as mps and members of golden dawn, the third electoral force, and the only substantial opposition in greece. we have been informed about the illegal detention procedures without the waiver of immunity, and today here, we are proclaiming respect for human rights, the promotion of justice, transparency, freedom of speech. we hope that, even if it takes a while, there will be active interest and pressure on the greek government to restore justice and, by extension, democracy, so that a direct solution can be found to the political persecution of golden dawn. i also wanted to suggest to mrs mogherini that she tell her friends in skopje, if they want to solve their problems, to join greece.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, our debate this evening is somewhat paradoxical. we are concerned with the situation of human rights and democracy in the third world and we do not see the problems within the union itself. the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against unemployment, and the european union has been a key player in the fight against unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you are really interested in human rights, i would recommend that instead of complaining about what is happening in third countries, we should finally implement the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights and the european social charter, thus subjecting the policies of the union to the constant scrutiny of the european court of human rights and the european social charter committee. but then the fiscal discipline herons in here would be in for some unpleasant surprises.
ecr), in writing. mr president, the eu's ambiguity on the issue of the protection of human rights in the world is coming to an end, at a time when the troika has violated human rights in the countries that signed the memorandum, and especially in greece, without any consequences. as the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has held that austerity leads to the violation of human rights, so the merckel austerity which the european union is serving with religious piety leads to a massive and persistent violation of the human rights of the citizens of the union. what is the commission's response to all this? business as usual continues, with the insistence on austerity. the european union is not a political force, but a political force, and it is not a political force, but a political force.
the commission madam president, the situation in libya should lead us all to the conclusion that armed interventions by foreign powers in third countries usually lead to chaos. libya is already practically disintegrated. different forces and races clash for dominance. the smuggling of arms and people is booming. at the same time, the jihadists are advancing with the aim of joining boko haram. the chaos in libya has caused huge waves of refugees to flee to the european union. the challenges facing the european union are enormous and can only be met in a peaceful way. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. what is the role of turkey and qatar in libya? are they funding jihadists, yes or no? and what measures is the european union going to take against these countries? because once again, as in syria, the relations between turkey and the jihadists are particularly close.
the commission madam president, the signing of the preliminary agreement to end the fighting with the rebels in mali is an important development. the creation of regional assemblies elected by direct universal suffrage with substantial powers will undoubtedly contribute to the democratization of mali and to the reduction of tensions. but mali cannot solve its economic problems as long as it is over-indebted with foreign creditors. that is why the debt of this country to foreign creditors should be cancelled. at the same time, all war crimes, such as genocide and human rights violations during the conflict, should be examined. finally, the european union must provide the necessary assistance to support mali's development, because only in this way can the action and influence of the jihadists in the region and terrorist attacks be curbed.
the serious threat posed to the european union by the militant activities of the jihadists of isis and the crimes they commit not only in the countries of the middle east but also in the countries of europe, requires us to cooperate directly and closely with the countries of the arab league which are trying to combat terrorism. we must do everything we can to prevent terrorists from entering europe. italy, mainly because of its proximity to libya, but also greece and spain, are ideal destinations for terrorists. as you know, these countries are receiving large numbers of illegal immigrants every day. so their routes and landing sites are known to smugglers and can easily be exploited. usually terrorists arrive in small groups, meet with cells that have already arrived in these countries, coordinate, and can cause chaos by attacking various targets. i end by quoting the characteristic statement of gaddafi's cousin, who in a british blog said that between 10 and 50 out of a thousand illegal immigrants are terrorists. in one to two years, you'll have a new 9/11.
the commission madam president, as the jihadists grow stronger and become more aggressive and dangerous, the european union's cooperation with the arab league can help to curb terrorism. but cooperation must not be limited to security issues. it must be extended to the political, economic and social spheres of the arab states. the european union and the arab league will cooperate in the field of human rights and will contribute to the democratization of the arab states. the council of europe can also play a decisive role in this context. the promotion of women, the protection of religious minorities, especially christian communities, the enhancement of the role of civil society, the reduction of poverty and social exclusion will help to tackle the social causes that fuel the development of jihadists. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i do not advocate that the european union should intervene in the formulation of standards of democratization or social behaviour and impose them on the arab states. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but our interventions must have the element of cooperation and not of intervention.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, anti-semitism, islamophobia and violent extremism are specific forms of racist attitudes and behaviour which, in their most extreme form, lead to the denial of the very humanity of the targets of hatred. all the political forces in this chamber must condemn in the strongest possible terms these heinous phenomena and all their manifestations in the present and in the past, such as the holocaust of the jews by nazi criminals in the second world war. the public condemnation and criminal punishment of racism is a prerequisite for ensuring that europe does not experience similar tragedies in the future. i must point out, however, that racism has many forms and that some of them start out in a somewhat disguised way. an example is the targeting of the greek people in recent weeks by the german newspaper bildzeitung, with unacceptable characteristics such as greedy greeks and the like. the cultivation of hatred between peoples begins with small seeds and to uproot them we need to condemn, without hesitation, all the perpetrators of the sowing of doom.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the sustainable exploitation of sea bass (2015/2596 ((rsp))
the regulation says that's not allowed. the agenda was amended on monday and it was announced in good time to all members that our sitting today would start at 9.00. i am sorry, but i cannot accept your request, and i now give the floor to mr joão ferreira, for a moment, on behalf of the group of the european united left.
the commission mr president, i would like to point out that the european union's common fisheries policy was shaped by a major conflict between france and the united kingdom over the management of fish stocks in the 1970s, a time when there was - and still is - a severe economic crisis. we are now faced with a serious problem, that of the management of stocks, with the conflict having elements not so much of an ethnic nature as being a conflict between those who are professionally involved in fishing and have interests to protect and, on the other hand, the need to protect the stocks themselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the fishermen in the mediterranean and in greece, because there too fishermen are facing problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and that the fishermen are not left behind.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. for the last 50,000 years, homo sapiens has proven to be the greatest destroyer of life on the planet, since the meteorite that hit the yucatan 65 million years ago and completely changed the natural environment. we must change this disastrous course. if we continue like this, the 22nd century will be called by future historians the "germanozoic period". we must protect nature. we are part of nature, not its owners.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i would like to say that i am in full agreement with what mr christogenes said. because i've lived with fish, almost, i'll tell you for those who don't know, the sea bass is a cannibal, it eats all the other fish. it's the sea fox, and in the area where it lives and feeds its young, it doesn't chase other fish, so you can see how cunning it is. but i took the floor to say - because the greedy are combined with the predatory - that today greece is about to be eaten by the greedy, who are its creditors, who are the ones who want to devour it and that is why i asked to speak. i will not stop saying - as long as i am alive - let the greek people decide their own destiny, do not interfere in the life of a people.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 12 march 2015, at 12 noon. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 28th session of the united nations human rights council (2015/2572 ((rsp))
the commission mr president, the 28th session of the un human rights committee is of particular importance. but let me point out that the european union is too ambivalent on the question of the protection of human rights in the world, at a time when the troika has violated human rights in the countries that signed the memorandum, and especially in greece, without any consequences. the commission, which is also a member of the troika, has accepted, in response to a parliamentary question, that human rights are not protected against memoranda because they are not, allegedly, related to european union law. as the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has held that austerity leads to the violation of human rights, so the merckel austerity which the european union is serving with religious piety leads to a massive and persistent violation of the human rights of the citizens of the union. what is the commission's response to all this? business as usual continues, with the insistence on austerity. the european union is not a political force, but a political force, and it is not a political force, but a political force.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. when a country doesn't have elections, we consider it undemocratic. we consider that there is a gross violation of human rights. on 25 january 2015, elections were held in greece. the greek people, by their verdict, have wanted to carve their own path, against all those who have put a noose around their necks and want to drown them with loans. i called on mr weber yesterday to ask him whether the greek people should swallow their own language. should he overturn what he voted for? he answered me with words that have no value at all. i ask him again, as i ask all of you, what should the greek people do?
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 12 march 2015, at 12 noon. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion on the recent attacks and kidnappings by daesh in the middle east, mainly of assyrians (2015/2599(rsp))
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. last time it was against the kurds. now against the assyrians. who's he gonna be up against next? resolutions and petitions do not address religious fanaticism and intolerance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with the policies we are pursuing today, we are effectively opening the doors of europe to jihadists. but not all the countries of the union have the same responsibility for this. not all countries supported the foolish american expansionist policy which was the one that created the right environment for the caliphate to develop. not all countries have sought to overthrow governments to serve their own interests. so it is better that everyone takes responsibility, and also stops pretending to be the world policeman before it is too late. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. i was here when the debate began and i had asked to be involved in the process of catching the eye. it wasn't you, it was some other lady, and she said okay. so i would like to speak in the context of catch the eye before the commissioner starts. i asked for it and i was here.
the commission mr president, south sudan is a rich region, it has enormous oil production potential and, of course, after it gained its independence, it is a fact that foreign interests, taking advantage of the contradictions and contradictions that existed in society, led this region into a civil war. we now have 1.5 million displaced people, we have 500,000 refugees in neighbouring countries, we have dealt with this issue in the european parliament meetings and it seems that we are heading towards a humanitarian crisis in the region, with over 4 million souls at risk. the new evidence is that children are now being recruited into this civil war and even kidnapped children are being forcibly recruited. the european union must take immediate, decisive action on this issue if we are to prevent a humanitarian crisis. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, the issue of south sudan is a very serious one and we have discussed it. what we are doing at this stage is raising the issue and pushing for concrete measures. we cannot deal with this situation without concrete measures. the first and most important thing is to look at the causes, and the causes are the exploitation of the resources of south sudan. who are the beneficiaries of the civil war situation? when we see this we can look at and take action against these causes in order to deal with all the other issues.
the commission mr president, land grabbing in africa is on the agenda. various large companies and so-called investors are forcibly acquiring vast tracts of land, because they want to use it either for agriculture or for biofuels. what is happening in this case is that companies from the united arab emirates have managed to acquire certain areas and now the illegal expulsion of the maasai from their territory has begun. they're supposed to tell them they don't have any documents to prove ownership. but their ownership of the land comes from usury, comes from farming for at least five centuries. so they acquired rights. property rights and these are protected by the human rights treaties. we must also protect them as a minority. they need protection measures!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because once again the european parliament is promoting a completely subjective text, which has serious inaccuracies and arbitrary conclusions. the only purpose it serves is to increase tension with russia.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament is once again promoting a completely subjective text, which is seriously inaccurate and leads to arbitrary conclusions. the only purpose it serves is to increase tension with russia. for these reasons i am voting against the motion for a resolution as a whole on the murder of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because the resolution was not objective.
in writing. ‒ the act of assassinating boris nemtsov is reprehensible, as is its use to escalate the european union's relations with russia.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to strengthen eu-nato ties.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report as a whole because it seeks to strengthen eu-nato ties.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour because i believe that the eu is facing a changing political and security environment and i believe that an ambitious and effective eu foreign policy needs to be based on a common vision of the key european interests, values and objectives in external relations, as well as a common understanding of the threats affecting the eu as a whole. we are in the midst of a dramatic deterioration of the security environment around the eu and i believe that the political, economic, financial and defence resources of the eu and its member states must be strengthened and combined in order to maximise the eu's global influence, create synergies and ensure peace and stability in europe and its neighbourhood.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report because, among other things, i am totally opposed to the eu's foreign policy on turkey and skopje. although turkey is systematically violating international law vis-à-vis greece and cyprus and refusing to abide by the terms and conditions of its pre-accession process, the eu has not taken any drastic measures against turkey until it complies with its international obligations vis-à-vis greece and cyprus. on the contrary, the eu is constantly rewarding turkey's illegal attitude and encouraging the importation of turkish agricultural products into the union, which is hurting greek and cypriot farmers financially. as for skopje, which greece does not recognise as an entity, the eu, instead of condemning skopje's provocative and redemptive attitude towards greece, expressed in the falsification of history and the trampling of our macedonia's name, is encouraging this form and looking for ways for future eu membership, a move which i find quite the opposite. let the eu leadership know that the greek people will not accept the name-ripping of our macedonia by skopje. the name of skopje is also not to be given a compound name with any geographical designation.
in writing. ‒ strengthening the eu's ties with nato and weakening those with russia is the wrong strategy in the context of defence and security in europe.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the defence of human rights is at the core of the european union's action and that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 and the eu's policy on the subject.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against this report because it recognises excessive rights for homosexuals, while, without taking any substantive measures to reduce illegal immigration, it requires member states to grant a plurality of rights to them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report as a whole because it recognises excessive rights for homosexuals, while, without taking any substantive measures to reduce illegal immigration, it requires member states to guarantee a plethora of rights for them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour because i believe that respect for human rights, including economic, cultural, social and environmental rights, access to food, good governance, democratic values, peace, security and access to a fair and efficient justice system, is a prerequisite for reducing poverty and inequality. i also consider that commitments on governance and human rights are measurable and can be monitored transparently and in the light of the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and the principle of the promotion of international law and justice, in compliance with the principles of the united nations charter, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and international law, placing 'human rights and human dignity at the heart of eu action', as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i did not vote because the eu is too ambivalent on the question of the protection of human rights in the world, at a time when the troika has violated human rights in the countries that signed the memorandum, and especially in greece, without any consequences. as the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has held that austerity leads to the violation of human rights, so the merckel austerity which the european union is serving with religious piety leads to a massive and persistent violation of the human rights of the citizens of the union. what is the commission's response to all this? business as usual continues, with the insistence on austerity. the european union is not a political force, but a political force, and it is not a political force, but a political force.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report on human rights and democracy in the world and eu policy in this area, as it makes clear that human rights are defined by the eu in each case, according to the interests of the companies which it considers to be its custodians. in particular, the report shows that human rights are being used by the eu as a tool of pressure and threats in third countries, in the search for new markets for the interests of capital, and as a pretext for imperialist interventions and the 'war on terror' that is bleeding the peoples. it is hypocritical to refer to 'freedom and democracy' at the same time as the eu is cooperating with reactionary fascist forces, as for example in ukraine, where these forces are persecuting the communist party of ukraine with the aim of making it illegal. the call for the elimination of child labour is a hypocritical wish list, since the report acknowledges and accepts it. the rights of every people are only established, guaranteed and secured when they become, by their own power, and free from the eu, the owners of the wealth they produce.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report recognises excessive rights for homosexuals, while, without taking any substantive action to reduce illegal immigration, it requires member states to grant them a plurality of rights.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report on human rights and democracy in the world and eu policy in this area, as it makes clear that human rights are defined by the eu in each case, according to the interests of the companies which it considers to be its custodians. in particular, the report shows that human rights are being used by the eu as a tool of pressure and threats in third countries, in the search for new markets for the interests of capital, and as a pretext for imperialist interventions and the 'war on terror' that is bleeding the peoples. it is hypocritical to refer to 'freedom and democracy' at the same time as the eu is cooperating with reactionary fascist forces, as for example in ukraine, where these forces are persecuting the communist party of ukraine with the aim of making it illegal. the call for the elimination of child labour is a hypocritical wish list, since the report acknowledges and accepts it. the rights of every people are only established, guaranteed and secured when they become, by their own power, freed from the eu, the owners of the wealth they produce.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution as a whole. the union has demonstrated too many times its hypocrisy and its ambiguity in rendering the terrorist label, member states have actively supported terrorist groups and organisations, while at the same time the text is yet another demonstration of cultural imperialism, where the union makes its assistance conditional on the complete submission and alignment of foreign states with its own mandates and its own system of values.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution because as the jihadists are strengthening and becoming more aggressive and dangerous, the european union's cooperation with the arab league can help to curb terrorism. i am of course maintaining the reservations i expressed in the debate, as i believe that qatar should be held accountable for its alleged links with the jihadists.
in writing. ‒ the the european union has often used hypocrisy and ambiguity in its interpretation of the concept of terrorist. there are member states which have actively supported terrorist groups and organisations in the past. the union must not make its assistance conditional on the complete subordination and alignment of foreign states to its own mandates and to its own system of values.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the sea bass, because i believe that measures are needed to manage the sea bass fishery at european level in order to preserve this species.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the bluefin tuna, because it protects the bluefin tuna by preserving it as a fish species while at the same time managing the relevant fish stocks in a satisfactory way. it also creates the conditions for financial support for professional fishermen affected by the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ any measure that helps to preserve marine life is in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the joint motion for a resolution on the 28th session of the un human rights council as a whole as it calls on the eu and its member states to implement the recommendations of the special rapporteur in their internal policy, and to combat the spread of racism, nationalism and incitement to it, via the internet and social media, which constitutes a heinous restriction on our national sovereign rights.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because the eu is too ambivalent on the issue of the protection of human rights in the world, while the troika has violated human rights in the countries that signed the memorandum, and especially in greece, without any consequences.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the recommendations of the special rapporteur on the internal politics of the member states, to combat the spread of racial nationalism and its incitement, through the use of the internet and social media, should be made with respect for their national sovereign rights.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the present motion for a resolution seeks to overthrow the legally elected government of venezuela, in order to strike a blow from the side against russia and to gain full control of the region's oil reserves. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the resolution is unilateral and not objective.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the unlawful persecution of any person, including political opponents, by the government of a state is reprehensible. any prosecution should be carried out in accordance with due process and with respect for human rights. the european union is hypocritical, however, when it is interested in such persecutions in third countries and allows them to take place in member states of the union. the commission's position is biased, reprehensible and therefore condemnable.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the president of the european council has spoken to us about the need for structural reforms in order to restore growth in the union. no one denies the need for reform. the crucial question, however, is what kind of reforms are involved. the disruption of the labour market, so that labour is handed over unorganized and unarmed to capital, does not lead to growth but to recession. the leveling of social rights and the violent impoverishment of the economically weak are not a step forward, but a step backwards. the crucial, necessary structural reform is to combat tax evasion and corruption, and in particular the large scale tax evasion and corruption emanating from large multinational corporations. the european union must be able to take action to combat these problems. as for greece in particular, it must be understood that the policies of the troika have been largely toxic, have led to a humanitarian crisis and must be corrected, as the greek people decided in the elections in january. this must be done within the framework of european rules, and the basic elements of these rules are, firstly, respect for the fundamental rights, including the social rights of all europeans, and therefore of the greeks, and secondly, the irrevocability of the participation of the states in the euro area. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european rules do not provide for an exit from the euro zone, nor is it the will of the greek people. the mandate given to the greek government in the last election is not to leave the eurozone, much less the union, but to negotiate hard within the existing institutional framework in order to improve the situation of the greek economy and society, in order to give greece a chance to breathe. give greece a chance.
the commission mr president, the decisions of the summit and the multilateral and bilateral meetings that followed are marked by the agreement of the greek government with the european union, its bank and the international monetary fund, to proceed with the anti-people reforms that will deal a new heavy blow to the workers and will give new privileges and capital to the business groups. the greek government continues its privatizations, its policy of savage taxation, the demolition of the social security system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the treaties of the european union, the rules and monitoring mechanisms of the stability pact and the european semester are much more specific. the only way for the people is to show no tolerance in their struggle for the new anti-people agreement of the government with the european union to extend the memorandum, to show now determination for immediate abolition of the memoranda and the implementing laws, by recovering all losses, by breaking with the european union, capital and their power.
mr. president, theotokos, the virgin mary, the lord is with you. on the occasion of the double feast of the annunciation of the theotokos and the greek revolution against the turks in 1821, i wish all greeks everywhere a happy birthday. the results of the eurogroup on greece on 20 march are that the eurozone leaders agree with what they already agreed on 20 february. unfortunately, the greek people are not aware of the agreements. let's speak the language of truth. the memorandum is still here, with additional measures, reforms and unilateral commitments and further bloodletting of the greeks. just change the language of the agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union, whether by free elections or by a referendum, and the results of these elections must be used to shape the common foreign policy of the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. yesterday, draghi, continuing his blackmail policy, also legally prohibited greek banks from buying additional greek government bonds. the euroworking group today also unlawfully rejected greece's request for the reimbursement of the 1.2 billion euros that were returned to the efsf by mistake by the imf and the greek government. the eurogroup also continues to illegally refuse to reimburse eur 1.9 billion of the ecb's interest-bearing profits on greek bonds. mr juncker, today the greek people are celebrating the revolution of 1821, which was fought to restore greece's national independence. you should know that the greek people, inspired by the struggle of '21, are still fighting today to regain their national independence and to drive the troika and the creditors out of our country.
rapporteur.– mr president, one of the major challenges of the annual tax report for this year was to employ a more political view on the subject rather than just following the standard path of doing business as usual. the emergence of the luxleaks cases during the drafting period has vindicated our view and compelled a political response. it was necessary for the parliament to take a political position and not to pretend that nothing had happened. this annual tax report is the standard vehicle of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on tax issues. the interest shown in it by meps is proved by the numerous amendments tabled on the issue, urging a clear political message. there was a wide range of proposals. more specifically, we can underline the focus on issues related to the requirement for social justice in tax policies. there was widespread concern about the taxation of capital, the taxation of income resources from interest payments, dividends and security returns, as well as on the control of financial vehicles used to facilitate tax evasion. in the same vein, the financial transaction tax still remains very popular. many colleagues made proposals on its enhancement and expansion, as well as on the use of its proceeds to augment either the eu budget or the fund for climate change and even the european fund for strategic investment. moreover, the discussion indicated the persistent concern of the parliament about corporation taxation, especially the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) and the minimum corporate tax contributions. there were many proposals which linked taxation to the competitiveness of european firms, as well as amendments on the way in which smes are taxed. finally, the parliament is still divided between those who favour coordination and those who favour harmonisation. the recurring coordination failures – as swissleaks and luxleaks also indicate – prompted many of our colleagues to stress the importance of more harmonisation on tax issues, using the european semester, and other issues such as access to funding for honest taxpayers. the parliament, as indicated in the compromise process, attempted to show a responsible stance with very strong support for a set of policies for assisting the fight against aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance and tax evasion, as well as policies to minimise the tax gap. there is also widespread understanding of the necessity for good governance in tax matters, for simple tax systems and tax policies that encourage entrepreneurship, strengthen competitiveness and support smes, and, moreover, understanding of the social consequences of tax policies, especially for economically weaker people. there are also issues that we can discuss further in the future, so as to share common ground for common policy initiatives. these issues include a definition of tax havens, sanctions against those who assist in tax fraud, country-by-country reporting, the oecd’s base erosion and profit shifting, the ftt, and shifting the tax burden from labour. one of the most important contested issues concerned the automatic exchange of information for making tax ruling practices and non—transparent agreements between member states and multinationals apparent. so, in the light of current developments and public concern, it is extremely important for the parliament to show its firm stance against any non—transparent practice that reduces legal certainty for taxpayers and distorts intra-market competition. we welcome the commission’s prompt proposal on tax transparency to fight tax evasion and avoidance, which stresses that the provision of information can no longer be refused on the grounds of inappropriate disclosure of information and of commercial, industrial or professional secrecy. however, we must be very sceptical so long as the set of consequences for those who do not comply is not explicitly identified. overall, despite the disagreement, we can say that the annual tax report is clear, coherent and focused, and that it lays the basis for a relevant, timely, fair, transparent, socially responsible and business-friendly tax policy for the european union.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for taking the floor and for their contributions. i am especially grateful to the shadow rapporteurs, who made this annual tax report the most political until now, for setting priorities. we will keep working for more common policy initiatives. unfortunately there is also a set of subjects on which we did not all find common ground, such as environmental issues and other indicators relating to the potential to generate growth and jobs, as well as the issue of protecting and defending whistleblowers – thanks to whom we know how the system works. allow me also to thank commissioner moscovici for his commitment, for listening to us, and for saying that he will present more initiatives by june of this year. thank you very much, commissioner. i would also ask the council to listen to us, as parliament now has a clear, coherent and to-the-point position in this report, which sets the basis for a relevant, timely, fair, transparent, socially responsible and business-friendly tax policy for the eu. thank you all, and i hope that we will keep working together to move things forward in the near future.
ecr), in writing. mr moscovici, the troika's tax-cutting policy imposed on greece has made the poor poorer and the rich richer. thus, the lower incomes were taxed by 337% and the higher incomes by only 9%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, luxleaks-style tax avoidance policies have deprived greece and other countries in the european south of billions of euros in tax revenues. that is why tax dumping must be stopped. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of capital goods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in tobacco products. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the taxation of capital goods, such as the introduction of a new tax on capital goods, the introduction of a new tax on capital goods, the introduction of a new tax on capital goods, the introduction of a new tax on capital goods, and the introduction of a new tax on capital goods.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the promotion of a fair, simple, stable and transparent tax system must be one of the key priorities at european level. unfortunately, the necessary cooperation in europe has not yet been established in this area, and because of the austerity programmes, we have been led on several occasions to an unprecedented overtaxation of certain occupational categories. it must be understood by all: a low level of taxation is necessary not only for the well-being of citizens but also for competitiveness and job creation. we need socially just tax systems that will act as tools for economic growth. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion. it should be noted, however, that too often small-scale tax evasion is given priority over large-scale multinational tax evasion. the fight against tax evasion requires effective action against aggressive tax planning and, of course, tax havens. the new commission proposal on the mandatory exchange of information on crossborder tax agreements is clearly moving in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this could be a realistic alternative, reducing the burden on honest taxpayers and securing the necessary additional resources to promote public investment.
rapporteur.– mr president, i should like to move the following oral amendment so that paragraph 37 reads as follows: ‘welcomes the swift implementation of country-by-country (cbc) reporting for banks as defined in the fourth amendment to the capital requirements directive (crd4); calls on the commission to introduce as a next step mandatory cbc reporting for cross-border companies, excluding smes, in all sectors and in all the countries in which they operate, including non-cooperative jurisdictions and tax havens, through an immediate revision of the accounting directive, whilst ensuring that administrative burdens are minimised.’
the commission i share the concern expressed by this question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. unfortunately, however, the problem is not limited to that. we have had complaints where employers are pressuring drivers to work long hours of grueling driving beyond the human limits of endurance. there is also no second driver, as is the case for long road journeys, both in goods vehicles and tourist buses. this situation entails an increased risk of road accidents. the way the common market is structured gives opportunity to those who are indifferent to labour rights and allows labour exploitation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. we must therefore move towards a fair policy, both in terms of pay and working conditions, throughout the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the situation in the european union is very serious because of the economic crisis. the countries of the european periphery have always supported the minimum wage and the protection of their transport project through cabotage. germany has always been in favour of market opening, the bolkenstein directive, anti-cabotage and the introduction of a minimum wage. but now that the carriers of the countries of the european periphery are making use of the internal market, germany, under the pretext of the introduction of the minimum wage, is erecting protectionist walls. it is trying to put the small transport companies of the countries of the european periphery out of business. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. so as the carriers of the poor countries clash with the carriers of the rich countries, "something is wrong in the kingdom of denmark", where the banking system is still in power.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i am sorry, mr president, that the european parliament is discussing a very serious matter, such as the minimum wage, in a derogatory way. we are focusing the discussion only on the minimum wage for road transport workers in one country, and we are forgetting the more general problem of the protection of all kinds of work in each member state. and we are dealing with this issue primarily from the point of view of the rules of competition, rather than the needs and lives of people. if the european union is to be consistent with the principles of the protection of fundamental rights, as laid down in article 2 of the treaty establishing the european community, then it should establish as a general principle that no one in any country should be paid a wage below the minimum standard of living. on the contrary, the policies of the union are leading to wage cuts below these levels, particularly in the memorandum countries, in the name of a false competitiveness. change course before it's too late.
the commission madam president, in 2011 the european parliament took the historic decision and recognised the genocide of roma by the nazi regime and its collaborators, as they considered roma as racially inferior. the debate today is not only about the genocide of thousands of roma by nazi troops. it brings to mind the mass executions of thousands of greek patriots, the hundreds of holocausts in the martyred villages of greece. it brings to our minds the thousands of greeks who were murdered in the nazi concentration camps, in auschwitz, in dachau and elsewhere. it reminds us all how timely it is to demand german compensation from greece and to enforce the court decision that justifies the victims of distomos. seventy years after the end of the second world war, the struggle for german reparations continues.
the commission madam president, pursuant to article 7 of regulation 472/2013, the member states of the union subject to a memorandum are to conduct a full audit of their public finances in order to assess the reasons that led to excessive debt levels and to identify any irregularities. as greece has been economically and socially dismantled due to the memoranda that have propelled the debt to 175% of gdp, we call today, on the eve of our national anniversary on march 25, on the greek government, using regulation 472 of 2013, to immediately conduct an audit of the debt and write off the most deplorable debt. moreover, as mr juncker pointed out, greece's over-indebtedness is due to illegal actions by the european union's supervisory authorities, who, although they knew that greece was over-borrowing, in breach of the maastricht treaty, turned a blind eye in order to continue the unhindered export of german and french products and industrial equipment to greece.
the commission madam president, since 2003, when the european neighbourhood policy was conceived, there have been many and great changes in europe's neighbourhood. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. all of these pose threats to the security of europe and must be dealt with in the appropriate way. the neighbourhood policy must not be based on economic gain alone. it must be based on the principles and values of the european union. we must help these countries so that they do not export their problems to europe. the most serious thing we must do is not to interfere in their internal disputes and, above all, in their civil strife. consider what happened with ukraine, libya and especially with syria, where we created the monster of isis that is in danger and threatens to eat frankenstein.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. this request comes from greece and concerns the field of electronic media. this sector has been particularly affected by the crisis. many online media workers were laid off during the crisis due to declining advertising revenues. the greek authorities have therefore requested additional funding of 5.04 million for the retraining and reintegration of 928 workers made redundant by companies in the attica region. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the egf/2014/018 gr/attica broadcasting application from greece for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the management of the budget.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ although i disagree with the way the egf funds are being managed and some companies are investing in retraining new skills of the dismissed with little money going to the benefit of the unemployed, i am voting in favour of the egf/2014/018 gr/attica broadcasting application because it concerns greeks.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that additional support should be provided to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade and that they should be supported with a view to their reintegration into the labour market, even if they have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, as is the case here with the employees of attica broadcasting.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as the greek authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 28 november 2014, well before the decision on the granting of egf support for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
in writing. ‒ i support, because it concerns greek unemployed, the argument that the funds should be given to employment programmes for the unemployed and/or dismissed and not to some companies that will be paid to train them. in greece we have a problem of unemployment and not a lack of knowledge, skills and qualifications among the unemployed.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. this request comes from greece and concerns the publishing sector. the media sector has been particularly affected by the crisis. many print media workers were laid off during the crisis due to declining advertising revenues. the greek authorities have therefore requested additional funding of eur 3.75 million for the retraining and reintegration of 705 workers made redundant by companies in the attica region. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the egf/2014/015 gr/attica broadcasting publishing activities application from greece for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the management of the budget.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ although i disagree with the way the egf funds are managed, and some companies are investing in retraining new skills of the dismissed with little money going to the benefit of the unemployed, i am voting in favour of the egf/2014/015 gr/attica publishing activities application because it concerns greeks.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that additional support should be provided to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade and should be supported with a view to their reintegration into the labour market, in the event that they have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, as in this case the case is with the employees of attica publishing activities.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as the greek authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 28 november 2014, well before the decision on the granting of support from the egf for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
in writing. ‒ i support, because it concerns greek unemployed, the argument that the funds should be given to employment programmes for the unemployed and/or dismissed and not to some companies that will be paid to train them. in greece we have a problem of unemployment and not a lack of knowledge, skills and qualifications among the unemployed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against parliamentary privileges and especially parliamentary immunity, because everyone is equal before the law. i therefore vote against the request for the waiver of the immunity of antónio marinho e pinto.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of antónio marinho e pinto, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against parliamentary privileges and especially parliamentary immunity, because everyone is equal before the law. i therefore vote against the request for the waiver of the immunity of ivan jakovčic.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr ivan jakovčić following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and training to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik, from ireland, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i believe that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to retraining companies producing skilled unemployed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we do not need skilled unemployed people and that is why i am voting against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: egf application/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that additional support should be provided to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade and should be supported with a view to their reintegration into the labour market, in the event that they have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, as is the case here with the employees of lufthansa technik.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because the irish authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to migrant workers on 7 december 2013, well before the decision and indeed the request for egf support for the proposed coordinated package.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed, and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against parliamentary privileges and especially parliamentary immunity, because everyone is equal before the law. i therefore vote against the request for waiver of immunity of viktor uspaskich.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the defence of the privileges and immunities of gabriele albertini. i am against parliamentary privileges and particularly parliamentary immunity, because everyone is equal before the law.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of gabriele albertini following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal for macro-financial assistance to ukraine, as i consider it our duty to help ukraine financially to cope with the deep recession, the sharp devaluation of its currency and the depletion of its foreign exchange reserves. at the same time, the ukrainian government committed itself to carrying out the necessary reforms contained in the association agreement with the european union aimed at strengthening the rule of law and the multi-party parliamentary system and ensuring respect for human rights.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report, as the economic aid to ukraine is being promoted to hurt russia
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to macro-financial assistance to ukraine as the economic aid to ukraine is promoted to ensure that the eu has a rival fear of russia.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour because it is well known that the ukrainian economy is suffering from a severe and acute crisis, and because the country's reform efforts have been seriously hampered by the armed conflict in the east, which has led to a sharp devaluation of the currency and the depletion of foreign exchange reserves. therefore, there was another significant external funding gap. since ukraine no longer has access to international bond markets, this gap can only be filled by additional official financial assistance. i believe that the macro-financial assistance instrument, which is an emergency eu crisis response mechanism, should be used, and it is made available to eu partner countries facing serious balance of payments problems.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, because i consider that it does not contribute to consolidating peace in the region of ukraine. in addition, the eu is to provide a loan of eur 1.8 billion to ukraine at the time of: 1) the euro working group has unlawfully rejected greece's legitimate claim for the reimbursement of eur 1.2 billion which, through an error by the financial stability facility and the greek government, was returned to the efsf and 2) the eurogroup continues unlawfully to refuse the reimbursement of eur 1.9 billion of the interest rate swap gains made by the ecb on greek bonds.
in writing. ‒ financial assistance to ukraine is being promoted to ensure that the eu is confronted with russia.
in writing. the increase in eu funding to ukraine is escalating the imperialist intervention of the eu and its us and nato allies in that country and their confrontation with russia, focusing on the region's wealth-producing and energy resources and their transportation routes. this funding will not only not bring relief to the ukrainian people, who are paying with their blood for the imperialist intervention and the choices of the local bourgeoisie, but will also spread poverty and misery, and continue the war and oppression. the european union funds are not intended for the needs of the people, but for business. they are accompanied by a memorandum and surveillance to promote a new round of anti-people reforms jointly planned by the reactionary ukrainian government, the eu and the imf, to ensure the profitability of the monopoly groups. the ukrainian people have no interest in being backed by any bourgeoisie, any imperialist. its independent struggle against the imperialists, for the overthrow of capitalist barbarity, for its own power, is the only one that can guarantee peace, mutually beneficial relations for the benefit of the peoples, the welfare of the peoples, solidarity and friendship of the peoples.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the economic crisis in europe makes it imperative to establish fair, transparent and simplified tax systems in order to tackle tax evasion, tax avoidance and unequal tax competition. in this context, the member states, together with the european commission, should play a central role by joining forces to combat tax havens. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's report on tax policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it promotes unhealthy interventionism in the economies of the member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the annual report on taxation, which promotes unhealthy interventionism in the economies of the member states and supports the creation of an intergovernmental taxation body under the auspices of the united nations, which i do not trust.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour because i believe that a fundamental review of the eu's own resources system is necessary, as allocating more own resources in a budgetary neutral way will lead to a more transparent european budget. tax fraud and tax evasion, estimated at €1 trillion a year, is a major threat to the efficiency and fairness of eu tax systems and increases the tax burden on all bona fide citizens and companies. in addition, the loss of these tax revenues means that less public resources are available for investment. in general, we must support by all means the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, as well as tax havens, with a view to promoting sustainable tax coordination for a long-term, growth-oriented economic policy.
in writing. the core of the report is the use of taxation by governments and the eu as a means of redistributing people's income to the benefit of large business groups. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council, including the provision of information on the activities of the european parliament and the council, the organisation of the european parliament's meetings and the organisation of the council's meetings, and the organisation of the european parliament's meetings. the inexpensive, hypocritical denunciations of tax evasion, tax fraud, tax havens and multinational agreements with eu member states for preferential tax treatment in order to defuse the anger of workers over their heavy taxation cannot hide the objective of the report to strengthen, also through taxation, the profitability of the monopoly groups. it openly calls for a reduction in corporate taxation, tax exemptions, privileges, aid to finance investment by monopoly groups in profitable sectors, 'shifting taxation from labour', i.e. a reduction in employers' contributions, and exemption of employers from their obligations to social welfare and insurance schemes. on the other hand, it calls for an increase in the tax evasion of the people's incomes, with an intensification of the persecution of workers and the imposition of new taxes. in order for the people to breathe the tax raid, the anti-people policy of the eu and governments, it is necessary to clash with the eu and the monopolies it serves, to take into their hands the power and the wealth it produces.
in writing. ‒ we do not want any interventionism in the economies of the member states.
in writing. the core of the report is the use of taxation by governments and the eu as a means of redistributing people's income to the benefit of large business groups. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council, including the provision of information on the activities of the european parliament and the council, the organisation of the european parliament's meetings and the organisation of the council's meetings, and the organisation of the european parliament's meetings. the inexpensive, hypocritical denunciations of tax evasion, tax fraud, tax havens and multinational agreements with eu member states for preferential tax treatment, to defuse the anger of workers over their heavy taxation, cannot hide the objective of the report to strengthen, also through taxation, the profitability of the monopoly groups. it openly calls for a reduction in corporate taxation, tax exemptions, privileges, aid to finance investment by monopoly groups in profitable sectors, 'shifting taxation from labour', i.e. a reduction in employers' contributions, and exemption of employers from their obligations to social welfare and insurance schemes. on the other hand, it calls for an increase in the tax evasion of the people's incomes, with an intensification of the persecution of workers and the imposition of new taxes. in order for the people to breathe the tax raid, the anti-people policy of the eu and governments, it is necessary to clash with the eu and the monopolies it serves, to take into their hands the power and the wealth it produces.
the commission mr president, i agree with the amendment of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, because more than 300 operational programmes financed by the humanitarian funds and the other european union funds will thus be able to be implemented by strengthening the union's regions. this will support growth and reduce unemployment in the countries of the european south, especially in greece, which has been impoverished by the memorandum. the commission has also proposed that the cohesion fund should be used to finance development projects in the greek periphery. the european agricultural fund for rural development will help flood-stricken farmers in the tenagés, the serres and the ebro. the asylum and migration fund will provide aid to greece, which is in danger of becoming a new lampedusa because of the thousands of refugees streaming into the aegean islands. finally, we denounce from this platform the extortionist policy of the troika which has frozen the implementation in our country of the programmes financed by the european union in order to make greece succumb to the extortionist policy of the creditors.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the turkish genocide of one and a half million armenians in 1915 is one of the darkest pages of 20th century history. the worst part is that this crime against humanity continues to this day, with the turkish state's refusal to recognize the genocide and to apologize. the final stage of genocide is denial because it leaves the way open for similar crimes to be committed in the future. turkey must stop its violations of international law, lift its threats of war against greece and end its military occupation of part of cyprus, recognize the genocide against both armenians and ponts committed a century ago and declare its practical repentance by opening its border with armenia and accepting the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. in any other case, turkey cannot be considered part of modern europe.
the commission the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. ancient christian populations of the near east, greeks, ponts, armenians, chaldeans and assyrians, were slaughtered, uprooted and displaced, both in the context of the ex-turkish occupation of anatolia and for the strategic needs of turkey and its german allies in the great war. the numbers of victims are a reference to a genocide: the armenians numbered 1,500,000, the pontic greeks 353,000, the greeks 800,000, and the assyrians, chaldeans, and syrians about 750,000. one hundred years later, turkey, in collaboration with the west, which deliberately deafens, continues to commit genocide, this time at the level of memory. it refuses to acknowledge the crimes it has committed, which go unpunished, and it has the audacity to ask to be integrated into the european family. ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of genocides and the commemoration of days of remembrance are not a matter for political debate. they exist to remind us of the extent of human cruelty, especially in turkey.
s & d) and the mr president, the 20th century brought the collapse of the ottoman empire and the birth of modern turkey. the darkest moments of this era include the loss of one and a half million armenians, a fact that marks 100 years this year. they were not soldiers, like those who perished in the millions on the battlefields of the great war, but hundreds of thousands of family members who were uprooted by displacement and death marches through mountains and deserts. the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide should open the debate so that last year's unfinished step by president erdogan to acknowledge turkey's responsibility for crimes against armenians, can be continued even further with the help of turkish civil society. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities, which is a key element of the un charter. we in the european parliament do not pass resolutions punishing but we contribute in our own way to overcoming contradictions, but overcoming which requires the much-needed courage of political leaders.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the orders for the mass extermination of the armenians were given by sultan abdul hamid but the main responsibility for the widespread massacres and genocide of the armenians is borne by the new turk movement, which also committed the pontic genocide and the mass slaughter of thousands of greeks in istanbul, izmir and the rest of turkey. the slaughter of more than one and a half million armenians constitutes one of the first modern genocides. today, when jihadists are slaughtering thousands of christians, we must send a strong message that we will not tolerate any more massacres, and that can be done by recognizing the genocide of the armenians and condemning the mass slaughter of them by the turks because they were armenians, because they were christians. it was a genocide carried out for the purpose of national cleansing.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the turkish government's refusal to recognize the crime of genocide is creating new problems, new crimes against humanity. the turkish government wants in this way to make the turkish people complicit, who bear absolutely no responsibility for what their ancestors did, and it does this also because it wants to continue the ethnic cleansing in cyprus. the european union is not prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy, but it is prepared to accept the idea of a common foreign and security policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the genocide of the armenians by the turks remains an undeniable historical reality. the fact that turkey has for a century stubbornly refused to recognize the crime of genocide against the armenians demonstrates how far it is from europe and from the rest of the world's democratic states. it should be noted that turkey is not only responsible for the armenian genocide, it is also responsible for other genocides, which it has been proven to have committed in the last century, through the systematic extermination of the christian peoples of the region, such as the pontic greeks, the assyrians and the chaldeans of asia minor. the reaction of mr erdogan to the ep resolution, which he has directly stated that he will ignore, is a challenge to civilized humanity and a challenge to the eu itself. turkey must first come to terms with itself in order to achieve reconciliation in the region. unfortunately, it seems that this will take a long time to come about.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is well known and well established that in this period of economic crisis, people with disabilities are among the greatest victims of this crisis. it is therefore positive that these people can be treated on an equal footing with other candidates for certain jobs. but if a quota is put forward, it will be binding and may work in reverse without having the desired effect. it would be more practical to allocate disabled people to jobs where their disability is not an obstacle and is not a reason for treating them differently from other workers. it is very important in the workplace that they feel they are equal partners and not that they are there simply because of our pity that they have a job. they have shown that people with disabilities have abilities and that they can do much more than we who are considered healthy. we should not forget the economic benefit to society. once they have an income to live on, they won't have to wait for welfare benefits as charity. we are in favour of the legislative framework but we think that the question of quotas should be reviewed. equal opportunities for all.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. i would like to ask you, mr president, because i agree with your position, how you would react to the fact that in greece, and possibly in other countries of the european union, because of the crisis, the government does not approve the subsidization of medicines which are expensive but which are essential for the survival of the sick, of the people who need them. the commission has already made a number of proposals. how do you comment on that?
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. but the worst discrimination against them is not so much due to the stereotypes and social backgrounds of their fellow men as to the power structures themselves. it is a power of european elites that impose austerity policies and violent budgetary adjustments that restrict social benefits even to the disabled. in greece the troika even cut disability pensions, which now range from 250 to 525 euros a month. it is therefore important to reverse social pressure and discrimination against persons with disabilities by developing a disability policy in the context of the future european union 2020 strategy. i hope that this will also be done within the institutions of the european union and that it will be the catalyst for a humane approach to disabled people throughout the european union.
the commission mr president, commissioner, as you have pointed out, the european union-mexico pnr agreement, which will allow the exchange of personal data of airline passengers travelling from the european union to mexico and vice versa, must be based on the specifications of european union law. firstly, the rights of citizens of the european union protected by the charter of fundamental rights must be respected, the principle of proportionality must be respected and the case law of the court of justice of the european union must be respected in relation to the retention of personal data. finally, we must await the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the eu-canada pnr agreement. therefore, until the above opinion is issued, there cannot be a sufficient legal basis to start negotiations with mexico. finally, i wonder whether mexico is a safe country that will be able to guarantee the protection of personal data that falls into the hands of the mexican authorities. this is a country where corruption, organized crime, extortion, kidnapping are rampant. i wonder where the personal data of airline passengers will end up if it falls into the hands of the authorities and the police in mexico.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the social rights of citizens to fairly paid work, health, social security, etc. are now the target of austerity policies and are in danger of being sacrificed on the altar of a supposed fiscal consolidation. twenty-two meps from three different political groups had pointed this out in our question and called on the european commission to regard the union's accession to the european social charter as a means of enhancing the protection of social rights. today, four months late, commissioner thyssen replied to us that the treaty on european union refers to the european social charter. i would inform the commissioner that last october the european council, in answer to my question on the violations of the european social charter by the troika in greece, ascertained by the charter committee, declared itself incompetent and therefore, in essence, indifferent to those violations. the commission and council's bilingualism threatens the foundations of the union.
the commission the explosive scale of the problem of welcoming and supporting refugees and migrants who are fleeing to greece, italy and other countries, driven by the imperialist interventions of the european union, the united states and nato, but also by poverty, is most tragically documented by the 400 dead off the coast of libya. the european union and the capitalist system it serves are creating and recycling the problem by means of regulations which must be abolished here and now. dublin ii and iii, schengen, frontex, eurodac, directive no 115 of 2008 which provides for up to 18 months' imprisonment, this is the anti-migration policy also applied by the greek government, keeping thousands of refugees and migrants bound for other countries trapped in inhumane conditions. we demand the establishment of open reception centres and temporary accommodation, the abolition of concentration camps, travel documents for those who are destined for other member states of the european union, asylum for all refugees and the legalisation of migrants, especially those who have lived in the country for many years and have strong ties with it.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation. it is positive that the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers and training to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the union's financial assistance to workers who are made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i therefore vote in favour of the report approving the application egf/2014/017 fr/mory-ducros, from france, for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because i believe that the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed. for the above reasons, my vote is against the egf/2014/017 application fr/mory-ducros.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that additional support from the european globalisation adjustment fund should be provided to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as this is intended to support more than 2500 redundant french workers in the inland transport sector. in addition, in order to provide immediate assistance to the workers, the french authorities decided to start implementing personalised services to the affected workers on 24 february 2014, well before the decision and indeed before the request for egf support for the proposed coordinated package of measures. in addition, it should be noted that france, like greece, is suffering from unemployment. thus, austerity in france increased the number of unemployed from 4,960,000 in may 2012 to 5,918,000 in february 2015. on 15 april 2015, french finance minister michel sapin presented detailed and new fiscal adjustment measures of €4 billion that will increase poverty and unemployment.
in writing. the so-called 'globalization fund' is increasingly being used by the eu institutions and exploited by the eu and its member state governments for the purposes of manipulating workers' consciences and concealing the real cause of the redundancies and the unemployment surge. by presenting the capitalist crisis as a so-called "financial" crisis, it tries to exonerate the capitalist system which, whether in a crisis phase or in a development phase, generates, reproduces and recycles the crises and unemployment inherent in the exploitative system. the crumbs of the fund, insufficient even as a temporary respite for the dismissed, are being used to contain the indignation, to cover up and embellish the capitalist barbarity, the anti-people policy of the eu and the bourgeois governments serving the monopolies, while the greater part of them supports various mechanisms and pseudo-training companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for unemployment to become a permanent thing of the past, for stable work with rights for all, the working class needs to strengthen its struggle to overthrow the anti-people policy, the exploitative system itself, in order to take into its own hands the power and the wealth it produces.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. the so-called 'globalization fund' is increasingly being used by the eu institutions and exploited by the eu and governments in its member states for the purposes of manipulating workers' consciences and concealing the real cause that leads to layoffs and unemployment. by presenting the capitalist crisis as a so-called "financial" crisis, it tries to exonerate the capitalist system which, whether in a crisis phase or in a development phase, generates, reproduces and recycles the crises and unemployment inherent in the exploitative system. the crumbs of the fund, insufficient even as a temporary respite for the dismissed, are being used to contain the indignation, to cover up and embellish the capitalist barbarity, the anti-people policy of the eu and the bourgeois governments serving the monopolies, while the greater part of them supports various mechanisms and pseudo-training companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for unemployment to become a permanent thing of the past, for stable work with rights for all, the working class needs to strengthen its struggle to overthrow the anti-people policy, the exploitative system itself, in order to take into its own hands the power and the wealth it produces.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report approves the replacement of council decision 2006/689 in order to allow the president of the social protection committee to remain in office for a second term. the european parliament and the employment committee also used this report to propose two further changes to the council decision. the first proposal is that the commission should look not only at the quality of health services provided but also at the degree to which they are accessible to all citizens. the second proposal refers to the need for better coordination of socioeconomic policies. i think that both of parliament's proposals are very important and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report and support the recommendation of the social protection committee because it aims to ensure cost-effective work and income security, secure pensions and sustainable pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable high-quality health care for all
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation of the social protection committee because it aims to ensure cost-effective work and secure income, secure pensions and sustainable pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable high-quality healthcare for all
ecr), in writing. ‒ the at a time when the european union is filled with armies of unemployed people because of merkel's austerity and the welfare state in europe has been dismantled, the establishment of the social protection committee under vote, although only of an advisory nature, is a positive first step as this committee will deal with deepening cooperation between the member states and will cooperate with the commission on social protection policies. in addition, the committee shall, inter alia, monitor the social situation and the development of social protection policies in the member states and in the union and facilitate the exchange of information, experience and good practice between member states and the european commission. it also notes that the creation of the committee will ensure better coordination of social policy with full respect for national competences. finally, the social protection committee will be able to commission the study of specific issues or to set up working groups within its field of activity, and thus explore ways of strengthening the social dimension of emu. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec.
in writing. the kke voted against the new regulations on the establishment and operation of the 'employment committee' and 'social protection committee' within the council of the eu, committees composed of 'experts from the member states', because we believe that their sole purpose is to align the existing committees with the mechanisms of the european semester and the eu's enhanced economic governance, that is, the supervision and enforcement of those anti-people reforms and measures that are jointly decided by the eu and civil governments in all eu member states. the role reserved to old and new committees, which are already disrespected by the workers, is an additional attempt to manipulate the working and popular masses by promoting the "dialogue of the social partners", that is, class cooperation and the submission of the working people to the aspirations of business groups, the "sparking" of the anti-working class attack with propaganda rants of alleged "social sensitivity", such as those that the syriza-elen government is carrying out with particular zeal in our country. the anti-people policy agreed by the eu institutions and the governments of the civil administration in all its member states is not 'manipulated', no matter how many committees and propaganda mechanisms they set up. popular counter-attack is needed, a strong popular alliance for radical changes in power and the economy for the benefit of the people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the social protection committee should aim to ensure cost-effective work and income security, secure and sustainable pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable high-quality health care for all.
in writing. the kke voted against the new regulations on the establishment and operation of the 'employment committee' and 'social protection committee' within the council of the eu, committees composed of 'experts from the member states', because we believe that their sole purpose is to align the existing committees with the mechanisms of the european semester and the eu's enhanced economic governance, that is, the supervision and enforcement of those anti-people reforms and measures that are jointly decided by the eu and civil governments in all eu member states. the role reserved to old and new committees, which are already disrespected by the workers, is an additional attempt to manipulate the working and popular masses by promoting the "dialogue of the social partners", that is, class cooperation and the submission of the working people to the aspirations of business groups, the "sparking" of the anti-working class attack with propaganda rants of alleged "social sensitivity", such as those that the syriza-elen government is carrying out with particular zeal in our country. the anti-people policy agreed by the eu institutions and the governments of the civil administration in all its member states is not 'manipulated', no matter how many committees and propaganda mechanisms they set up. popular counter-attack is needed, a strong popular alliance for radical changes in power and the economy for the benefit of the people.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report approves the replacement of council decision 2000/98 to allow the chairman of the employment committee to be re-elected for a second term. it is a technical report and that is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report and support the recommendation of the employment committee because it aims at high levels of employment and stresses the importance of the proper management of the guidelines and the cooperation of the member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation of the employment committee because it aims at high levels of employment and underlines the importance of the proper management of the guidelines and the cooperation of the member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the at a time when the european union is filled with armies of unemployed people because of merkel's austerity, the establishment of the committee on employment, which will be closely following the development of employment policies in the member states and in the union, is a positive first step. this is because the commission is, inter alia, to promote the attainment of a high level of employment in the formulation and implementation of union policies and to help ensure that the general economic policies of the eu are consistent with the employment guidelines. it is noted that the establishment of this committee will ensure better coordination of employment policy, with full respect for national competences. the employment committee will also consult the social partners and cooperate with other relevant bodies such as the social protection committee and promote the exchange of information and experience between the member states and the european commission. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision setting up the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec.
in writing. the kke voted against the new regulations on the establishment and operation of the 'employment committee' and 'social protection committee' within the council of the eu, committees composed of 'experts from the member states', because we believe that their sole purpose is to align the existing committees with the mechanisms of the european semester and the eu's enhanced economic governance, that is, the supervision and enforcement of those anti-people reforms and measures that are jointly decided by the eu and civil governments in all eu member states. the role reserved to old and new committees, which are already disrespected by the workers, is an additional attempt to manipulate the working and popular masses by promoting the "dialogue of the social partners", that is, class cooperation and the submission of the working people to the aspirations of business groups, the "sparking" of the anti-working class attack with propaganda rants of alleged "social sensitivity", such as those that the syriza-elen government is carrying out with particular zeal in our country. the anti-people policy agreed by the eu institutions and the governments of the civil administration in all its member states is not 'manipulated', no matter how many committees and propaganda mechanisms they set up. popular counter-attack is needed, a strong popular alliance for radical changes in power and the economy for the benefit of the people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the employment committee should aim at high levels of employment and highlight the importance of the proper management of the guidelines and the cooperation of the member states.
in writing. the kke voted against the new regulations on the establishment and operation of the 'employment committee' and 'social protection committee' within the council of the eu, committees composed of 'experts from the member states', because we believe that their sole purpose is to align the existing committees with the mechanisms of the european semester and the eu's enhanced economic governance, that is, the supervision and enforcement of those anti-people reforms and measures that are jointly decided by the eu and civil governments in all eu member states. the role reserved to old and new committees, which are already disrespected by the workers, is an additional attempt to manipulate the working and popular masses by promoting the "dialogue of the social partners", that is, class cooperation and the submission of the working people to the aspirations of business groups, the "sparking" of the anti-working class attack with propaganda rants of alleged "social sensitivity", such as those that the syriza-elen government is carrying out with particular zeal in our country. the anti-people policy agreed by the eu institutions and the governments of the civil administration in all its member states is not 'manipulated', no matter how many committees and propaganda mechanisms they set up. popular counter-attack is needed, a strong popular alliance for radical changes in power and the economy for the benefit of the people.
mr president, i supported the council regulation which amends the multiannual financial framework because for the czech republic, which i represent here, this amendment is very important. it allows the money, which was earmarked for 2014 and amounted to czk 80 billion, to be used up only in 2015. in the absence of this change, the czech republic would lose all the money for 2014 because, unfortunately, no operational programme has been approved so far. in addition to the delay of the czech administration, the fact that the regulation itself, which regulates these rules, was adopted relatively late, is also to blame. i therefore think that the change we have introduced today is a positive one, because it will ensure that the money allocated to the economically weaker regions is properly used.
the commission mr president, i voted in favour of amending the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 to allow for the carry-over in 2015 of funds not used in the past. the commission will be implementing 300 operational programmes. in greece in particular, programmes to reduce unemployment, which has reached 26%, will be able to be financed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will also be financing primary sector programmes to help greek farmers and livestock farmers cope with the increased production costs. the cohesion fund will implement infrastructure projects in the transport and energy sectors. finally, research, innovation and training will be strengthened through the implementation of the relevant programmes.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the as the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework were delayed in their completion, many of the appropriations foreseen for 2014 were not used. the amount that was unused and could not be carried over was eur 21 billion and covered all member states. to avoid this money being lost, the european commission has put forward a proposal to amend the multiannual financial framework and to carry this money over in 2015. the committee on budgets has unanimously agreed to the above amendment and i hope that the house will do the same.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because carrying over appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years will lead to their being used and help growth.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i support the recommendation on the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 because carrying over appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years will lead to their utilisation and help growth.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this draft regulation because it is a necessary step to complete the process of launching the new programming period for cohesion policy without any negative impact on regions and cities and, consequently, on european citizens. the european structural and investment funds are the most important investment policy of the union and it is necessary to use all resources as timely and efficiently as possible in order to create growth and jobs. the new programming period is already significantly delayed and it must be ensured that there will be no further delays or any losses.
in writing. the transfer of unused funds, mainly from the eu's regional and cohesion funds, from the 2014 eu budget to the 2015 budget will not benefit the people who will continue to suffer from the anti-people policy of the eu and its member state governments. these funds are earmarked for projects and infrastructure which generate profits for the business groups, while projects necessary for the needs of the people (flood protection, seismic shielding, housing projects, schools, etc.) are not eligible, since they are not linked to the profitability of the groups. the budget and the eu's multiannual financial framework are anti-people, regardless of the amount of funds they provide, because their main focus is on financing monopolies or projects necessary for their profitability. the people are the ones who pay for the heavy taxation of both the community and national budgets for the benefit of the plutocracy. to satisfy the people's needs requires a conflict with the eu and the power of the monopolies, a strong people's alliance to pave the way for the people's power and economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the carry-over of appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years will lead to their utilisation and help growth.
in writing. the transfer of unused funds, mainly from the eu's regional and cohesion funds, from the 2014 eu budget to the 2015 budget will not benefit the people who will continue to suffer from the anti-people policy of the eu and its member state governments. these funds are earmarked for projects and infrastructure which generate profits for the business groups, while projects necessary for the needs of the people (flood protection, seismic shielding, housing projects, schools, etc.) are not eligible, since they are not linked to the profitability of the groups. the budget and the eu's multiannual financial framework are anti-people, regardless of the amount of funds they provide, because their main focus is on financing monopolies or projects necessary for their profitability. the people are the ones who pay for the heavy taxation of both the community and national budgets for the benefit of the plutocracy. to satisfy the people's needs requires a conflict with the eu and the power of the monopolies, a strong people's alliance to pave the way for the people's power and economy.
the commission i voted in favour of the resolution recognising the armenian genocide, because it allows us to pay tribute to the millions of armenian men, women and children who were massacred by the forces of the young turks, whose aim was ethnic cleansing. one hundred years after the armenian genocide, humanity is rolling its necks over their graves. from the ordinary citizens of the world to the pope, everyone with one voice condemns the mass killings of the armenians, condemns this crime against humanity. the vote on the resolution is therefore not only a restoration of the truth but also a historic act that puts pressure on turkey to finally recognize the genocide of the armenians and the pontian genocide and to apologise. the turkish government must commit itself in practice to respecting international law by withdrawing the turkish occupation troops from cyprus and removing the casus belli against greece.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the parliament's resolution is a joint action to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide and to pay tribute to the victims of the genocide. in our resolution, the european parliament calls on turkey to recognize the genocide and to stop denying the historical reality and the crimes committed against the christian populations of the then declining ottoman empire. the armenian genocide was one of the first genocides of the 20th century. acceptance of history and memory are essential elements to be able to avoid the repetition of similar crimes in the future
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide because i am in full agreement with the recognition of the armenian genocide and the pressure being put on turkey to do so.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are in complete agreement with the recognition of the armenian genocide and the pressure being exerted on turkey to do so.
the commission mr president, in 2011, the european parliament took a historic decision and recognised the genocide of roma who were murdered by the nazi regime and its collaborators because they were considered racially inferior. seventy years have passed since the roma were dragged by the thousands to the crematories of the nazi camps at auschwitz, dachau, belsen, mauthausen, where thousands of greek patriots were also murdered. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution condemning the genocide of the roma by the nazis, because i believe that this is a way of honouring the memory of the thousands of roma who were murdered en masse by the nazis, and at the same time a decisive message to all those who are nostalgic for nazism.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the it is estimated that at least 500,000 roma were exterminated during world war ii by the nazis and their allies. the european parliament therefore calls in its resolution for the recognition of the genocide of the roma during the second world war and for the establishment of a european roma holocaust remembrance day, which would be an important symbolic step towards preserving historical memory and would make a significant contribution to combating anti-gypsyism. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because i believe that the existing legislation does not need to be supplemented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on 'international roma day - anti-gypsyism in europe and eu recognition of the day dedicated to the memory of the genocide of roma during the second world war', because i do not consider it necessary to defend the rights of roma.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour because i am concerned about the xenophobia which is manifested against the roma, this particular form of racism based on an 'idea' of racial superiority, which is a form of inhuman treatment and is one of the main causes of the discrimination and marginalisation which they have historically suffered in many european countries. as a consequence of all this, many roma continue to live in extremely poor conditions and experience extreme levels of social exclusion and discrimination. · in addition, the genocide of roma by the nazis continues to be widely ignored and often not recognised at all, with the result that the roma people are among the "unknown" victims of the genocide during world war ii. · however, preserving the memory of crimes against humanity and serious human rights violations is of paramount importance in the pursuit of peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe and therefore the genocide of roma in europe must be given full recognition, commensurate with the gravity of the crimes committed by both nazi and other regimes. i believe that a european day should be dedicated to the memory of the victims of the genocide of the roma during the second world war and i propose that it be called the european day of remembrance of the roma holocaust.
in writing. the kke supports the demands of the roma for equal, full and completely free access to education, health care, health care and welfare, i.e. to all social protection infrastructures. the kke fights against discrimination and racism against them, fights against all forms of racism, fights against the anti-people policies of governments and the eu, defends the protection and preservation of their cultural, racial and linguistic identity. but the resolution is against their just demands. it is a non-judgmental wish list that serves only to obscure the capitalist barbarity that is the cause of the suffering of the roma in all eu member states. the resolution calls provocatively for the implementation of the eu's shameful decision to criminalize different views on historical truth, in order to allegedly protect roma from discrimination. the capitalist system, driven by the profit of the capitalists, breeds and reproduces through cruel exploitation discrimination, racism, anti-communism, hatred and creates from its womb fascism. the unprecedented achievements and rights enjoyed by roma communities and any minority in the soviet union and other countries of socialist construction prove that only a socialist-communist society abolishes the disgrace of exploitation and is able to ensure the well-being of all working people, without any discrimination, racial, national, religious or any other.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ any race or people who wish to be recognised and treated equally and without discrimination within civilised societies must first be able to recognise, understand and therefore obey rules of law, while at the same time fulfilling the corresponding obligations arising from the dignified and harmonious coexistence of all.
in writing. the kke supports the demands of the roma for equal, full and completely free access to education, health care, health care and welfare, i.e. to all social protection infrastructures. the kke fights against discrimination and racism against them, fights against all forms of racism, fights against the anti-people policies of governments and the eu, defends the protection and preservation of their cultural, racial and linguistic identity. but the resolution is against their just demands. it is a non-judgmental wish list that serves only to obscure the capitalist barbarity that is the cause of the suffering of the roma in all eu member states. the resolution calls provocatively for the implementation of the eu's shameful decision to criminalize different views on historical truth, in order to allegedly protect roma from discrimination. the capitalist system, driven by the profit of the capitalists, breeds and reproduces through cruel exploitation discrimination, racism, anti-communism, hatred and creates from its womb fascism. the unprecedented achievements and rights enjoyed by roma communities and any minority in the soviet union and other countries of socialist construction prove that only a socialist-communist society abolishes the disgrace of exploitation and is able to ensure the well-being of all working people, without any discrimination, racial, national, religious or any other.
the commission mr president, no one can doubt the usefulness of the ecall system, which can indeed save lives after road accidents and thus contribute to safety during transport. but there is a question of what safeguards are provided for personal data and what safeguards are provided that there will be no scrutiny of privacy. judging by the conversation, there are no guarantees. the famous principle of flexibility creates a significant gap. the retention of data, even for a short period, i think is the beginning of a new situation which will allow, possibly with a future amendment of the regulation, that data to be retained for a much longer period. we have not been given any explanation as to what this really important service will have to do with the so-called 'digital traffic' and the choices that will be made. we have not been informed of how this system will work in the future in relation to the famous automatic traffic of vehicles. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states.
the commission mr president, the problems of insecurity in bangladesh's workplaces became public knowledge after the tragic collapse of the rana plaza building in 2013, which killed over 1,100 workers. a few days later, a fire broke out in the industrial area in dhaka, killing eight people. in may 2014, in a new fire again in a clothing factory in dhaka, we had another 13 dead. today bangladesh is a jungle of work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers is guaranteed by the fact that the safety of workers. at a time when corporate profits in bangladesh exceed 120 percent and the value of the garment industry exceeds $22 billion, wages rarely exceed $40 a month. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on safety at work are respected and that the exploitation of minors is prohibited.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not affected by the new rules. the year 2015 will be a test year for its implementation. this policy aims to protect the environment by putting an end to discards at sea. however, alongside the objective of protecting the environment and conserving fish stocks, sustainable fishing should be supported. the social and economic impact of the regulation on small-scale fishermen in the member states must be taken into account, as it increases the operating costs of small-scale fisheries and traditional fishermen. in addition, investment and an increase in labour costs are required. for this reason, a significant period of adaptation should be allowed and financial support and tools should be provided to adapt small fish to the new system, since the new framework requires, among other things, investment in storage and on board.
the commission mr president, the arguments between the greek government, syriza-anel, and the troika in the eurogroup, despite the noise, are not about popular interests but only about which part of capital will benefit from the impending anti-people agreement that will signal a new attack on wages, pensions, new privatizations, etc. the two sides are identical in their anti-people attacks and differ only in the manner and timing of their manifestation. the government, on the orders of the troika, is seizing the funds available from public bodies, municipalities and social security funds to pay a debt that the people do not owe, and as a result, the problems in the municipalities, the regions, the hospitals, the schools and the universities are getting worse. the anti-people memorandum laws are left untouched while the government is handing out millions in fines to companies for tax fraud and smuggling, always at the behest of the european union, the european central bank and the international monetary fund. the anti-people policy in greece continues and the european union is stepping up its attack on the people. the responsibility now lies with the workers: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i would like to ask the honourable member whether he is aware that the recent earthquake in the himalayas is linked to climate change, which is the consequence of any human intervention in nature, particularly in relation to fuels.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the objectives of the treaty. this increase in heat produces two phenomena: - the ice is melting and the crust is rising at this point, as we have measured in greenland and as it did in the himalayas and that's why the great himalayan earthquake happened. - i know . the second is that the melting of the ice causes a huge increase in evaporation and evaporation, and as a result we have rainfall, we have flooding and subsidence of the land at low points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sounding the alarm if we don't take the necessary measures. i'm ringing the alarm!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next partsession. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances. some have made a fortune by promoting the material as supposedly environmentally friendly, while causing tremendous ecological damage. i think we should therefore propose a total ban on their use. my view is that we should move towards banning thin and very thin plastic bags, keeping only those that are thick enough to be reused. i believe that the consumer should pay for their purchase, a practice which is already being practised in some countries of the union. as regards their replacement, we must return to the use of paper bags, and only recyclable ones. it is probably neither convenient nor economically advantageous, but we must be willing to make sacrifices for the environment, because the future consequences will be catastrophic for the whole planet if we continue to practice today.
s & d) and the madam president, it is estimated that 99 billion plastic bags were used in the european union in 2010. this number translates to 200 bags per person. the majority of them are so-called thin plastic bags, which we see mainly in supermarkets and retail stores. since these bags are not usually reused, the environmental impact is significant, especially for aquatic ecosystems. this directive makes the necessary amendments to the waste legislation to limit the impact on the environment. parliament has called from the outset for specific targets to be set for reducing the use of the thin plastic bag. with the agreement reached, member states have two options and can either take the appropriate measures to reduce annual consumption to 90 per person by the end of 2019 and to 40 by 2025, or to ban their provision at the point of sale of goods and products by the end of 2018 at the latest. i welcome and support this agreement and believe that today we are laying the foundations for tackling a very important source of pollution.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation because the convention must also cover the smaller vessels which make up the bulk of the southern european fishing fleet.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the international convention on standards for fishing vessel personnel because i believe that the convention should also cover the smaller vessels which make up the bulk of the fishing fleet in southern europe.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to become parties, in the interest of the european union, to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and shifting for fishing vessel personnel, because the european parliament rightly considers it appropriate to extend the scope of the stcw-f convention or, at least, to adopt regulations at union level applicable to vessels of 24 metres in length and below, and also because it rightly calls on the commission to draw up legislative proposals in this regard.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the convention on the safety of personnel on large fishing vessels does not cover smaller vessels, which however make up the bulk of the southern european fishing fleet.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council decision authorising member states to become parties to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards of training, certification and shifting for fishing vessel personnel, as the objective of the stcw-f convention is to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels have the qualifications and skills required for the job in question so as to minimise all possible risks to their safety.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the as the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework were delayed in their completion, many of the appropriations foreseen for 2014 were not used. the amount that was unused and could not be carried over was eur 21 billion and covered all member states. to avoid this money being lost, the european commission has put forward a proposal to amend the multiannual financial framework and to carry this money over to 2015. following the revision of the multiannual financial framework, we are now amending the 2015 budget to make use of this money.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the possibility of using appropriations not used in previous years is a step in the right direction, provided, of course, that this action is not an accounting trick.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the possibility of using appropriations not used in previous years is moving in the right direction, provided that this action is not an accounting trick. my vote is in favour of the report on the position of the council with regard to draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii - commission
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii commission, because i consider it to be of vital importance - both for european citizens and for the economy in all member states - that the appropriations not used in 2014 can be carried over to the following years so that they contribute to job creation and growth.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ most of the text neither refers to the conclusions of the commission's assessment of its general budget for the year 2013, nor focuses on the arguments for or against the commission's discharge, but focuses on current issues and policy positions, thus distorting the meaning of the report itself.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to make its views known in the council. however, ecall does not provide guarantees for the safeguarding and protection of personal data and privacy because, first, ecall is mandatory in all cars; second, ecall continues to operate even against the driver's will; third, the principle of flexibility creates significant privacy gaps; fourth, personal data will be retained for a period of time; and fifth, personal data will be available to private entities. so the ecall system could be used to reinforce big brother's attempt to control every aspect of our private lives.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the development of a public pan-european emergency call system in all cars, which will be linked to the number 112, represents a very important and substantial step towards improving the safety of citizens. it is estimated that this system will be able to help save over 2500 road accident victims every year.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation because there are no guarantees that electronic surveillance systems will not be used for illegal activities and because the protection of personal data is not fully guaranteed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the deployment of ecall in vehicles because there are no guarantees that electronic monitoring systems will not be used for illegal activities and because the security of personal data is not fully guaranteed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning type-approval requirements for the deployment of the 112-based ecall system in vehicles and amending directive 2007/46/ec, because i consider that ecall does not provide guarantees as regards the safeguarding and protection of personal data and privacy, and this is because, firstly, ecall is mandatory in all cars, secondly, it continues to operate even against the driver's will, thirdly, the flexibility principle creates significant privacy gaps, fourthly, personal data will be retained for a period of time, and fifthly, personal data will be at the disposal of private operators.
in writing. the regulation is a forgery and far from innocent. it creates a system of compulsory, permanent and continuous satellite surveillance of all vehicles and their passengers, even against their will. the fact that the european parliament rejected the amendment allowing the user of the system to deactivate it manually proves that the aim of the regulation is not the safety of passengers but their monitoring. the eu is using every pretext to create a giant surveillance and record-keeping network of everything, consisting of the eu's 'smart borders' and the eurosur system for the continuous monitoring of every third-country national entering the eu, linked to the vis and eurodack, the schengen sis i and sis ii databases, gmes ground observation satellites, unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs), vessel traffic and rescue monitoring systems (vms, safeseanet). they even use the pretext of allegedly fighting antique-mining circles and looting of artworks by the "jihadists" to activate the eu torrejón satellite centre. now they're adding ecall. there is not a single eu policy, even among those who pretend to be 'innocent', which does not aim at protecting the monopolies and their power.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i believe that there are no guarantees that electronic surveillance systems will not be used for illegal activities and i also believe that the protection of personal data is not fully guaranteed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the type-approval requirements for the deployment of the 112-based ecall system in vehicles. the emergency call system, which will immediately and automatically alert the emergency services in the event of a road accident, is estimated to reduce the number of road deaths by 10%. it is particularly positive that the european parliament has strengthened the privacy clause so that a car equipped with ecall cannot be monitored if no accident has occurred and has ensured that the data collected by the emergency centres via ecall cannot be provided to third parties without the express consent of the person concerned.
in writing. the regulation is a forgery and far from innocent. it creates a system of compulsory, permanent and continuous satellite surveillance of all vehicles and their passengers, even against their will. the fact that the european parliament rejected the amendment allowing the user of the system to deactivate it manually proves that the aim of the regulation is not the safety of passengers but their monitoring. the eu is using every pretext to create a giant surveillance and record-keeping network of everything, consisting of the eu's 'smart borders' and the eurosur system for the continuous monitoring of every third-country national entering the eu, linked to the vis and eurodack, the schengen sis i and sis ii databases, gmes ground observation satellites, unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs), vessel traffic and rescue monitoring systems (vms, safeseanet). they even use the pretext of allegedly fighting antique-mining circles and looting of artworks by the "jihadists" to activate the eu torrejón satellite centre. now they're adding ecall. there is not a single eu policy, even among those who pretend to be 'innocent', which does not aim at protecting the monopolies and their power.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives puts a limit on the use of first generation biofuels with their often negative environmental consequences and unfair competition to agricultural and food production. the present proposal, which i voted in favour of, provides an incentive for the development of environmentally friendly biofuels based on waste.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the text as a whole because the ways in which it is trying to promote biofuels will actually put even more pressure on the environment. it also bases europe's energy consumption on third countries, namely the unstable countries of the so-called third world, thus prolonging energy insecurity and perpetuating the colonial relationship with these countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the whole text because the ways in which it is trying to promote biofuels will actually put even more pressure on the environment. once again, europe's energy consumption is based on third countries, particularly the unstable countries of the so-called third world, thus prolonging energy insecurity and perpetuating the colonial relationship with these countries. i am not going to vote for the amendments which are moving in the right direction.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the the draft recommendation restates parliament's position at first reading, which is to oppose a further increase in the council's ceiling for the share of conventional biofuels that can contribute to the objectives of directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec. at the same time, the methodology for estimating emission factors needs to be revised, given both land-use change and adaptation to technical and scientific progress.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the directive is another move to support the import of energy into europe from unstable countries in the so-called third world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only more environmentally friendly but also more environmentally friendly.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report, even though it is a step in the right direction and is in any case intended to improve the current situation, because i want to point out that this is not enough and that our ultimate goal must be a complete ban on the use of this type of plastic carrier bag.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to reducing the consumption of thin plastic carrier bags, even though the report is a step in the right direction and in any case improves the current situation, because i would like to point out that this is not enough and that our ultimate aim must be a complete ban on the use of such plastic carrier bags.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the today's vote is an important first step in the fight against plastic pollution. in greece, billions of plastic bags are used every year at a cost of over eur 300 000. these bags, after carrying our groceries, end up in the garbage and pollute land and sea. the plastic bag has thus become the symbol of a consumer society that destroys the environment and causes the needless death of large numbers of birds and fish. it is the symbol of a society without environmental sensitivities that does not protect its natural wealth, that is, in the case of greece, our heavy industry. it is a symbol that must soon be a thing of the past. the biggest victim of the plastic bag is the seas. we greeks, who have been given the rare gift of a vast coastline and thousands of enchanting islands, must adopt bold and innovative policies. the policy i propose is to tax the use of plastic bags and to use the proceeds exclusively for the protection of the environment and in particular of our coasts and seas. the compromise reached today at european level must be a first step. there are viable alternatives if we change our mindsets. we must, from today, envision a responsible society, a greece and a europe free of plastic bags.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec with a view to reducing the consumption of thin plastic carrier bags is a positive development as, in the view of the european parliament, the final agreed text is based on the preferred option identified in the commission's own impact assessment and as appropriate provisions are laid down for member states to achieve an effective reduction of the consumption of plastic carrier bags across the union.
in writing. the reduction in consumption of small plastic bags is a minimal part of the environmental pollution caused by plastic waste, but the eu directive neither wants nor can touch and deal with it, since preventing its management does not serve the interests of monopolies at the moment. once again, in the name of protecting the environment, the eu is trying to impose new burdens on the working class family, since the measure to reduce consumption it proposes is to pay for the small bags that will be collected directly by the monopolies that run the supermarkets. at the same time, it opens up new areas of profitability for monopoly groups producing so-called 'biodegradable and compostable' bags, which it excludes from the reduction targets. the eu policy aggravates all the problems of the people because it treats them solely on the basis of the profitability of the monopoly groups.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while the report is a step in the right direction, we stress that it is not enough. we are aiming for a total ban on the use of these types of plastic carrier bags.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on amending directive 94/62/ec to reduce the consumption of thin plastic carrier bags. thin plastic bags make up the vast majority of plastic bags used in the eu. this is a huge environmental problem, as billions of plastic bags end up as untreated waste, destroying our natural environment. under the new european directive, eu member states will have two options: either to take measures to ensure that average annual consumption is gradually reduced, or, alternatively, to ensure that, from the end of 2018, these bags will not be given to shoppers free of charge.
in writing. the reduction in consumption of small plastic bags is a minimal part of the environmental pollution caused by plastic waste, but the eu directive neither wants nor can touch and deal with it, since preventing its management does not serve the interests of monopolies at the moment. once again, in the name of protecting the environment, the eu is trying to impose new burdens on the working class family, since the measure to reduce consumption it proposes is to pay for the small bags that will be collected directly by the monopolies that run the supermarkets. at the same time, it opens up new areas of profitability for monopoly groups producing so-called 'biodegradable and compostable' bags, which it excludes from the reduction targets. the eu policy aggravates all the problems of the people because it treats them solely on the basis of the profitability of the monopoly groups.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting because i am in favour of any attempt to limit carbon dioxide emissions. of course, there are still many steps to be taken before the desired results are achieved.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading, reporting and verification of co2 emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/eu, because i am in favour of any attempt to limit co2 emissions. of course, there are still more steps to be taken until the desired results are achieved.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/eu, because this proposal establishes a positive and effective system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ any effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions is welcome. however, there are still many steps to be taken before the desired results are achieved.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics, because i believe that there is a need to make changes to the way statistics are collected.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because i consider that the present recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics violates the principle of subsidiarity and therefore the subsequent protocol no 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ improvements in the way statistics are produced are steps in the right direction.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the commission proposal as amended by the european parliament because i agree with the need for adequate protection of fish stocks and the consequent adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of our fishing fleets.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the amendment proposed by the european parliament to the commission's report, because i am in favour of adequate protection of fish stocks and the consequent adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of fishing fleets.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks, amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 is incomplete because the stocks of herring and sprat are not yet covered by a management plan. cod, herring and haddock are important components of the baltic ecosystem. as cod is a predator of herring and mackerel, the size of the cod stock affects the size of the herring and mackerel stocks, and vice versa. the effects on flatfish, in particular from cod fishing, should also be covered by the plan.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the protection of fish stocks and the adoption of legislative measures to exploit and maintain the viability of fishing fleets are steps in the right direction.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks because i believe that there is a need today for a modern fisheries management plan in the baltic sea. the text covers the need for effective management of these species and sets out rules for the most efficient, balanced and sustainable exploitation of the fishery resources of the area.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the amendment of council regulations (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2187/2005, (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 2347/2002 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and the repeal of regulation (ec) no 1434/98 on the landing obligation, because i believe that this does not ensure compliance with the landing rules, which is directly related to respecting and protecting the right to livelihood.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulations (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2187/2005, (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 2347/2002 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1434/98 on the landing obligation, because, on the one hand, the social and economic impact of the regulation on small-scale fishermen in the eu member states is not taken into account, as the cost of operating small-scale and traditional fisheries increases, and on the other hand, additional investments are required, which will lead to an increase in labour costs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ landing rules must be respected in order to respect and protect the marine environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation because croatia has always followed a firmly anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the issue of the name of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the croatia has always followed a firmly anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the issue of the name of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc. i am voting against the amendment of the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european community and russia to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as i consider that the recommendation does not sufficiently regulate the issues under consideration.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ croatia has always followed a firmly anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the issue of the name of skopje, economic policy at community level and others.
the commission mr president, i voted against the report on the implementation of the bologna process because the bologna process was used to undermine the public nature of higher education in greece and the rest of the european union. this opened the way for the privatisation of a purely public good, such as higher education, and the imposition of tuition fees on the postgraduate programmes of heis in greece. the bologna process was supposed to make a significant contribution to employment, but youth unemployment is high. in greece it has reached 51.7% and 200,000 young scientists, i.e. 2% of the greek population, have emigrated to the countries of the european union's hard core. at the same time, the reduction in education funding imposed by the memoranda in the countries of southern europe, combined with the bologna demands, are leading education towards a purely commercial approach.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report, although i consider education and research important in the context of promoting skills development, economic development and job creation, because i do not agree with some aspects of the report such as the internationalisation of education, student participation in higher education governance, strengthening european citizenship and further liberalisation of residence permits for recognised refugees seeking skilled professional activity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while i consider education and research to be important in terms of promoting skills development, economic growth and job creation, i do not agree with some aspects of the report such as the internationalisation of education, student participation in higher education governance, strengthening european citizenship and further liberalising residence permits for recognised refugees seeking skilled professional activity. my vote is against.
in writing. the report supports and promotes those restructurings that capital needs in the education systems of the eu member states, restructurings that lead to the degradation of studies, the dismantling of scientific subjects, the disconnection of degree and profession, the adaptation and subordination of the whole structure and functioning of higher education to the objectives of monopolies. the eu emphasises the so-called recognition and certification procedures of professional qualifications, quality assurance systems through evaluation and so-called mobility. the aim is to increase the competitiveness of capital through new mechanisms for exploiting graduates, through permanent job insecurity and through the movement of young workers from industry to industry and from country to country. the committee also voted against the alternative report submitted because it accepted and embellished the objectives of the bologna process of creating a single market for educational and research products and services and of increasing the work and educational wandering of young people, in line with the needs of the monopolies. the identification of the greek government with the directives expressed in this "gospel" of capital for higher education, which is the bologna process, is also revealing of the anti-people plans of the government for education in our country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while we consider education and research to be important in promoting skills development, economic growth and job creation, we do not agree with some aspects of the report such as the internationalisation of education, student participation in higher education governance, strengthening european citizenship and further liberalising residence permits for recognised refugees seeking skilled professional activity.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must continuously strengthen higher education in europe by every possible means that promotes science, knowledge, research, innovation of the academic community and students' skills. this initiative highlights the role of the bologna process, assesses and identifies the concerns that have arisen and highlights the priorities and new challenges that we as europe must face in developing, modernising and supporting higher education in order to reduce disparities between member states.
in writing. the report supports and promotes those restructurings that capital needs in the education systems of the eu member states, restructurings that lead to the degradation of studies, the dismantling of scientific subjects, the disconnection of degree and profession, the adaptation and subordination of the whole structure and functioning of higher education to the objectives of monopolies. the eu emphasises the so-called recognition and certification procedures of professional qualifications, quality assurance systems through evaluation and so-called mobility. the aim is to increase the competitiveness of capital through new mechanisms for exploiting graduates, through permanent job insecurity and through the movement of young workers from industry to industry and from country to country. the committee also voted against the alternative report submitted because it accepted and embellished the objectives of the bologna process of creating a single market for educational and research products and services and of increasing the work and educational wandering of young people, in line with the needs of the monopolies. the identification of the greek government with the directives expressed in this "gospel" of capital for higher education, which is the bologna process, is also revealing of the anti-people plans of the government for education in our country.
the commission mr president, i voted in favour of the report on european cinema because films are cultural and economic goods which make a significant contribution to the development of the european economy, while at the same time they have the potential to contribute to the preservation of the cultural heritage of the member states of the union. although the european film industry is one of the largest producers in the world, it is nevertheless operating in a de facto fragmented market due to europe's cultural and linguistic diversity. this is why promotion, cross-border distribution and accessibility must be ensured, which go hand in hand with audience development. it is important, however, that the media programme should ensure access to new sources of funding. we must ensure the operation of small and independent cinemas, especially in small towns, and in this context, greece must be provided with sources of funding for the operation of summer cinemas, which are an important cultural asset for my country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is absolutely necessary to promote european cinema, which is part of our culture and which must keep pace with the times and become more competitive.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on european cinema in the digital age because it is absolutely necessary to support european cinema, since it is part of cultural creation and since it also needs to keep pace with its times and become more competitive.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age because i consider films to be cultural and economic assets which make a significant contribution to the preservation of the cultural heritage of the member states of the union. the european film industry, although one of the largest producers in the world, is nevertheless forced by the cultural and linguistic diversity of the continent to operate in a market which is virtually fragmented. promotion, cross-border distribution and accessibility must therefore be ensured, which go hand in hand with attracting an even wider audience. we must ensure the operation of small and independent cinemas and we must also, through the media programme, provide sources of funding for greece for the operation of summer cinemas, which are an important cultural asset for my country.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the resolution on 'european cinema in the digital age', because it includes measures that support the monopoly companies that control the cinema space and worsen the position of small independent creators. the european monopolies are being strengthened by community funds, such as the media programme under creative europe, and other facilities, mainly in the field of distribution of works, but also in the online distribution of audiovisual material (vod and svod services), while production by small independent producers, who are required to cover the high costs, is being hampered. at the same time, given its potential to shape social consciousness, cinema is exploited as a means of propaganda to integrate the popular masses into the aims of capital. the introduction of 'film and multimedia literacy' in education, which shapes the way young people perceive the content of audiovisual works, while at the same time paving the way for the profitability of the cultural industry, contributes to this ideological manipulation. the need to socialise the means of producing culture is once again confirmed, so that both creators and the general public can breathe freely.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ european cinema is part of europe's cultural heritage and needs to be modernised and made more competitive in order to broaden its appeal.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of this initiative both in the plenary session of the european parliament and at the meeting of the committee on culture and education, of which i am a member. this exhibition takes an in-depth look at the multifaceted dimension of cinema, as part of europe's cultural heritage and as an important sector of the european economy. the creative industries can be an important driver of growth and employment in times of crisis, and evidence shows that the cinema sector has not been sufficiently exploited, despite its potential as an industry. i think that the text adequately covers the multifaceted contribution of cinema to the lives of citizens because it promotes its exploitation as a cultural and social asset and as a cost-effective product, and because it enhances accessibility across borders throughout europe.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (ces) has voted against the resolution on 'european cinema in the digital age', because it contains measures that support the monopoly companies that control the cinema space and worsen the position of small independent creators. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. at the same time, of course, the production conditions for small independent producers are made more difficult by the high costs they have to cover. given its capacity to shape social consciousness, cinema is also used as a means of propaganda to subjugate the masses to the aims of capital. the introduction of 'film and multimedia literacy' in education, which will shape the way young people perceive the content of audiovisual works and at the same time pave the way for the profitability of the cultural industry, contributes to this ideological manipulation. the need to socialise the means of producing culture is once again confirmed, because only then will both creators and the general public be able to breathe freely.
the commission mr president, the european union's forestry strategy must focus on sustainable forest management, with the primary objective of protecting the environment, especially at a critical juncture marked by climate change. in this context, the risk of forest fires must be reduced, especially in view of the summer season. the european union must therefore provide financial support to greece and the other european union countries to deal with the forest fires. mr president, forests and forestry not only ensure a good quality of life but also contribute to economic growth, job creation and value added. but if we really want to be sustainable, economic exploitation of forests must be carried out in a way that is long-term planning, that reinforces the principle of sustainability, that applies new technologies and that respects the limits of sustainable supply. the report does not provide for this, and that is why i abstained.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour because i welcome the reaction, albeit belated, and the establishment of a common framework to deal with the issues and serious problems threatening europe's forests.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the new eu strategy on forests and the forestry sector because i welcome the response, albeit belated, and the establishment of a common framework to address the issues and serious problems facing europe's forests.
in writing. the kke voted against the report because it subordinates forests and their management to the competitiveness of industry monopolies supported by eu funds (from the horizon 2020 programme) and other facilities, within the framework of the eu's policy of energy self-sufficiency and its competition with other imperialist centres. the solution to the problems of forests (decrease in biodiversity, illegal logging) is entrusted to forest owners, contractors and industry monopolies who cooperate with governments that invest for the profit of forestry companies and strike at the rights of forest workers, effectively undermining and completely cancelling the people's right to leisure. references to sustainable development, the green economy, climate change, forest biomass as a renewable energy source and the protection of biodiversity hide nothing but new areas of profit for monopolies that further turn land and forests into commodities - objects of multiple exploitation. forests are social property and the comprehensive protection and management of forest ecosystems for the benefit of the people can only be achieved when the power and the economy are in the hands of the people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the establishment of a common framework to address the issues and serious problems facing europe's forests is a step in the right direction.
in writing. the kke voted against the report because it subordinates forests and their management to the competitiveness of industry monopolies supported by eu funds (from the horizon 2020 programme) and other facilities, within the framework of the eu's policy of energy self-sufficiency and its competition with other imperialist centres. the solution to the problems of forests (decrease in biodiversity, illegal logging) is entrusted to forest owners, contractors and industry monopolies who cooperate with governments that invest for the profit of forestry companies and strike at the rights of forest workers, effectively undermining and completely cancelling the people's right to leisure. references to sustainable development, the green economy, climate change, forest biomass as a renewable energy source and the protection of biodiversity hide nothing but new areas of profit for monopolies that further turn land and forests into commodities - objects of multiple exploitation. forests are social property and the comprehensive protection and management of forest ecosystems for the benefit of the people can only be achieved when the power and the economy are in the hands of the people.
the commission the european union is facing a number of dangers, both visible and invisible. old and new threats are shaping a highly uncertain international environment, where asymmetric and hybrid threats have now been added to the conventional ones. if we add to these the economic crisis, the rise of terrorism, illegal immigration and the failures in the implementation of european policies, then the interconnection and interaction of all these factors, makes up a highly volatile and unpredictable security environment. the causes are many and the safety problems even more. the rise of religious fundamentalism, civil strife, large flows of illegal immigrants, the collapse of the concept of the state in neighboring areas and their replacement by extremist organizations like isis, coupled with economic, political and social differences and inequalities, globalization and a host of others, are only part of the problem. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. without cooperation and solidarity in the field of defence and security, europe will not be able to cope with the threats that are thwarting any attempt to establish an environment of peace, development and sustainability.
the commission i think that the european commission, with its new measures and initiatives, has acted quickly, efficiently and institutionally, because it too operates in a constantly changing environment which, quite rightly, requires it to develop new initiatives. i think that most of us want to support such initiatives and i think that they complement each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the first is this flat-out approach to fiscal consolidation which prevents the financing of the right initiatives. we all complain, for example, about the limited capacity of europol, but what exactly are we doing to finance it sufficiently to enable it to develop its activities? the second problem we all face is, i think, national egos in the sense that the member states cannot tackle the problems on their own and are at the same time reluctant to make the necessary european opening-up and to contribute to the necessary common european solutions. i think that the issues we are discussing will rise higher and higher in the public interest scale of priorities because they concern the average european citizen and because they are expected to concern him even more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, at a time when the european central bank is allocating 60 billion euros a month as part of its credit easing programme, draghi and his gang are continuing their blackmail policy against the greek people. so while we here in the european parliament are discussing mutual funds and short-term financing of businesses and governments, draghi continues to apply credit strangulation against greece. in early february, draghi illegally excluded greek government bonds from eurosystem operations, where greek banks used them as collateral for their ecb financing. the ecb subsequently prohibited greek banks from increasing purchases of greek government t-bills. in riga, draghi announced that he would tighten the noose around the greek banks even more. draghi and his cronies are trying to force greece to give in to the creditors' demands. but he will not succeed, because the greek people will win and throw the troika out of our country.
the commission mr president, today's debate gives me the opportunity to speak about the life and state of enisa, the european agency for network and information security, based in heraklion, crete. as a member of parliament for heraklion in 2012 and 2013, i witnessed the attempts of various circles to remove enisa from crete and greece. we then joined forces with the local authorities in heraklion to stop these methods, methods that are leading to the division of enisa into two departments, an administrative department in heraklion with 8-10 people, with specific specifications, in a building of 4,500 square meters, with the operational department in athens without serious infrastructure and with branches in brussels and other cities. the final objective of the methodology is to move enisa's headquarters to brussels. but everyone should know that their methods will fall flat. i therefore call on mrs georgieva and especially the court of auditors to give serious consideration to what is happening in the functioning of enisa. for my part, i declare that i shall not vote for the discharge of enisa and i call on my colleagues to do the same.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people from the risks of exposure to asbestos is a very good one. to be more specific, in greece the official youth unemployment rate is 60%, whereas in reality it is perhaps even higher. the worst part is that this situation is not expected to change any time soon, despite the efforts being made at both national and union level. the reason i don't think things will change is because we're taking the wrong approach to the problem. instead of seeking to create permanent and decently paid jobs, we are focusing on a questionable retraining and also on the creation of temporary and low-paid employment schemes. in this way, the really substantial sums spent will have no effect at the end, other than the financial benefit of some who pretend to be interested in solving the problem of unemployment, while they have simply found another way to suck money out of the european budget.
the commission mr president, the youth employment initiative has only six billion euros available, at a time when we have over five million unemployed young people in the european union and when draghi has 1.1 trillion euros available to buy government bonds of all the eurozone countries except greece and cyprus. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european youth employment initiative is a good one, but it is not enough. youth unemployment in greece is 51.7%. the unemployment rate among young people is also very high in spain and portugal. at the same time, the inefficient use of the initiative in the countries of the european south is explained by the lack of public resources needed to launch projects offering new jobs, internships and training. at the same time, because of the memorandum cuts, greece is facing the greatest difficulties in finding co-financing, much more so now that draghi and his cronies at the ecb have imposed a credit strangulation on greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the funds for the initiative are used in greece and in the countries which have signed the memoranda. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet responded to the question. i would like to thank the honourable member and say that at the moment, if there is to be co-financing from greece, funds are needed. but when public investment has been reduced as a result of the memorandum, there is no money available on the greek side to provide the co-financing needed to achieve the results of this initiative - much less when there is credit suffocation of the greek banks by the european central bank, which is no longer giving a single euro to the greek banks to enable them to invest. so, as far as greece is concerned at least, this is the key element that you have to take into account.
the commission i would like to make the following points. firstly, the budget provides for secretarial support for certain committees, but i do not see any support for the secretariat of the committee on petitions. we must understand that this is a very important committee, which has direct contact and contact with the citizens of the european union, receives their requests, receives their reports and is the only way in which the european parliament maintains direct contact with the citizens themselves. the secretarial allowance of the committee on petitions should therefore be increased. secondly, i am concerned about the notion that we should limit the number of written questions. the basic activity of a parliament is the exercise of parliamentary control. if we are not able to ask questions, then we are obviously limiting the very powers we have. i therefore think it is hypocritical to say, for reasons of economy, that we should not be able to submit many written questions.
the commission the commission has been particularly sparing in its statement. we understand the reasons. tax evasion and tax avoidance are anti-social activities and must therefore be severely punished. tax evasion and tax avoidance can also be revealed by journalistic investigation. so that means there is no conflict between the public interest and journalistic investigation that exposes tax evasion, because that is the public interest. the persecution of journalist edouard perrin is illegal and unacceptable, because this journalist has exposed the luxleaks scandal, has exposed the responsibilities of certain countries, tax havens that give multinationals the opportunity to evade taxes. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and it has been asked to take a decision on the matter. we therefore denounce what is happening because it is an infringement of the right to freedom of expression.
the commission the european union has discovered a new pretext for launching new imperialist interventions: the strike against the slave traders. but just as you are responsible for the imperialist interventions and the suffering they bring to the peoples, so you are responsible for the waves of migrants and refugees who are drowning en masse in the mediterranean. slave traders are one and the same with the system you serve, because capitalism and immigration, imperialist war and refuge, are inextricably linked to serve the profits of the monopolies. the european union's tears - which it so provocatively calls its 'smart' borders - are really crocodile tears, however much the greek government may extol the european union and its anti-people policy. the solution for the people lies in the conflict with the european union and capital, in the abolition here and now of the schengen and frontex treaties and the dublin regulations, in measures to provide substantial relief to refugees and migrants. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. human dignity is first and foremost judged by whether you have a policy that serves the interests of the people, the migrants, the refugees who are being displaced. there are specific responsibilities here and we say that first and foremost it is the immigrant and the refugee who can survive within the european union, even at the borders, who is worthy. the problems facing immigrants today require more decisive action, and governments bear enormous responsibilities for this situation. the role of the european union, frontex and all these repressive mechanisms must also be highlighted here, because if they do not stand up, there will be no rights for migrants and refugees.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would agree with you that the root cause has not yet been discussed here, because it was the european countries, the colonial countries, that created all the problems in the colonies from which these people came. but there is one country, turkey, which is the country that is moving the most people here and which wants to join the european union. what measures do you propose for this state?
the commission madam president, yesterday we were discussing thin plastic bags and today we are unfortunately discussing some of the hideous bags used for the dead bodies of people who have lost their lives in the mediterranean trying to cross to europe. italy and greece are being asked to confront the wave of illegal immigrants you are inviting, saying that europe must open its arms and welcome them, europe which, together with the united states of america, is mainly responsible for their misery. not all illegal immigrants are syrian and libyan refugees. the greek islands are flooded with people throwing their travel documents into the sea because they don't want to be registered, because they don't want to be locked up in greece and italy, as the dublin ii treaty requires. if europe really needs them, let them have travel documents to go to other countries. those who do not meet the criteria must be repatriated immediately. greece can no longer stand being the wave breaker for illegal immigrants who want to invade the union. fight the smuggling rings in turkey and libya with all means. the european union is not a military power. we need to figure this out right now!
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the european union has never dealt with the migration problem in its true dimensions as a common european problem. the repeated maritime tragedies in the mediterranean cause a momentary stir, but in the end little changes. the union leaves the member states from which migrants enter, greece, italy and malta in particular, almost helpless, while the final destination states, the northern european ones, refuse to assume their responsibilities, even at an economic level. the ten points of the action plan recently announced by the commission and the council constitute a delayed and limited response of a firefighting nature. we will never be able to control migration flows if we do not help improve the situation in countries such as libya and syria, where the reckless interventions of european and other external actors have contributed to chaos. i have no regrets.
the commission mr president, greece is daily inundated by the mass influx of refugees due to the conflicts in the middle east and north africa. as evidenced by the coast guard data, in the first quarter of 2015 we had 10,762 new entries in the aegean sea, compared to only 2,763 entries in the same period of 2014. the wave of illegal immigration is hitting mainly the countries of southern europe which are already suffering and have been impoverished by austerity and are struggling to cope with the huge flows of migrants they are receiving. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. the dublin iii regulation, which has turned greece into a warehouse of souls, must finally be abolished. the european union must immediately implement the famous principle of european solidarity. this means that the burden of refugee and migration flows must be distributed among the countries of the european union, according to their size, population, gdp. the unemployment rate must also be taken into account. but the extraordinary european council has once again thrown the ball to the host countries, such as greece and italy, and that is unacceptable.
s & d) and the the council's views are not satisfactory. some of the necessary steps are being taken, but at a desperately slow pace. i am of course hopeful that today's speech by president juncker was more forward-looking than the council's measures. i think we are waiting for the commission's plan in may. the council is faced with the most dramatic problem, the rescue of people who risk their lives, but it does not touch in any substantial way on what will become of these people when they reach the shore. i am not talking about the aid that must be given immediately to the frontline countries so that we can provide humane living conditions in the first-aid centres. i am talking about offering safe accommodation in any european country to all those who are entitled to asylum. if they do not, we automatically include them in the smuggling rings we are supposedly fighting, because i assure you that no syrian refugee dreams of joining the thousands of compatriots living in my country next to the 25% of our unemployed. we therefore call for solidarity and an immediate review of dublin. everything else is a half-measure.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. following the tragic events in the mediterranean and with hundreds of thousands of refugees set to flood europe in the coming months, civilized europe cannot turn a blind eye and leave some member states to deal with this humanitarian issue alone. the new agenda on migration, to be announced by commissioner avramopoulos, and the decisions of the recent summit, are the basis for dealing with the problem immediately and intensively to deal with it here and now! what is lacking is the political will of all the member states to show solidarity in practice by fairly distributing asylum seekers amongst themselves. the mediterranean countries, including greece, bear the heaviest burden. we must understand that the asylum system is dysfunctional and agree to the creation of a binding mechanism based on objective criteria such as the size of each country, its infrastructure, its economic situation and the capacity of its asylum systems. in the fight against traffickers who profit at the expense of the lives of desperate migrants, the eu must focus on meaningful cooperation with third countries and seriously consider the possibility of imposing sanctions, financial and otherwise, on the states where traffickers operate unhindered.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as most of the text does not refer to the conclusions of the commission's assessment of the 2013 dg, nor does it focus on the arguments for or against the commission's discharge. it focuses on current issues and political positions distorting the meaning of the report itself
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the most of the report neither refers to the conclusions of the commission's assessment of its general budget for the year 2013, nor does it focus on the arguments for or against the commission's discharge. instead, it focuses on current issues and political positions that alter the purpose and significance of the report. i therefore vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency; (b) sound documentation; (c) reliability; (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission and executive agencies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the commission and the executive agencies need to clarify, clarify and provide appropriate and acceptable answers on the outstanding issues of 2013
the commission mr president, i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal because the youth employment initiative strengthens and accelerates measures to support and develop skills. the initiative we have voted for here today is aimed precisely at those regions where the rate of youth unemployment is above 25%. in my country, the youth unemployment rate is more than double that, over 50%. we have a whole generation of excluded. for this generation, we have taken a small step forward today. but the situation will not improve substantially unless we create a comprehensive strategy for consolidating growth, directly involving smes, educational institutions and local government, in order to create sustainable jobs for young people.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the youth employment initiative was intended to tackle the big issue of youth unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission together with the european parliament have therefore decided to increase the rate of advances granted by the european union from 1% to 1,5% to 30%, corresponding to an amount of over eur 1 billion for 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because although youth unemployment is a major problem in the union, the proposed response is ineffective, does not create permanent jobs and money is being diverted to the wrong actions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ although youth unemployment is a major problem for the union, the proposed response is ineffective, does not create permanent jobs and money is being diverted to the wrong actions. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund, as regards the increase in the amount of initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/04/2015.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is the european union's biggest problem. the proposed approach is ineffective, but it does not create permanent jobs and money is being diverted to the wrong activities.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the increase in the amount of initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. the changes to the rules governing the european social fund will make it possible to allocate €1 billion from the eu to tackle youth unemployment. of course, this is not enough money, but it is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the the report consolidates the existing regulation and the common rules for the import of certain textile products from third countries and i am voting in favour of its adoption. the only amendment relates to the list of countries to which it applies as some of them have become members of the world trade organisation and have left the scope of this regulation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is in favour because the issue concerns countries such as serbia and russia.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries, because the report is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the import of textiles from third countries weakens the national economies of the member states and adds to the negative balance of imports and exports, with the result that europe's industries are being emptied. the european economy, which is already struggling, must be strengthened by initiatives to boost exports of european products.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the report on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european union and norway is merely a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i am voting in favour of its approval.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour because i believe that this will boost export activities.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway because, when examining the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway, the consultative group has unanimously found that the proposal does indeed merely constitute a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ we support efforts to boost eu export activities.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance, and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is negative because albania continues to disrespect greece on many issues and problems.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against this report because the resurgence of albanian nationalism is particularly worrying, as tirana is using kosovo as a lever to promote the redemptive idea of greater albania, which demands a change of borders in the balkans and territories belonging to greece. as long as albania pursues an illegal and irrational redemptive policy against greece, which has for decades hosted and provided bread and work for thousands of albanian economic migrants living in our country, the only thing the albanian leadership will succeed in doing, i repeat, is to irreparably damage greek-albanian relations and its european course. the european union is also calling on the albanian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the rights of the greek minority in northern epirus are respected. a minority with a population of over 250,000 people. in addition, albania should, in accordance with the conclusions of the general affairs council of 16 december 2014, ensure equal treatment of all minorities in albania and respect for their rights, including property rights. for all these reasons, i am opposed to any future eu membership for albania.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this is merely a procedural matter.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance, and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and for implementing the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, because i am opposed to any future accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the eu as i explained in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/04/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the bosnia and herzegovina does not fulfil basic requirements of a state governed by the rule of law and is therefore far from accession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a member of the central european free trade agreement and does not observe the traditional conditions for conducting intra-eu trade.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance, and i therefore vote in favour of its adoption.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is against because of the most basic of the issues that divide us, the issue of the name.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, because skopje continues to take a provocative stance towards greece. the greek people will not accept that our name is being stolen from macedonia by skopje. nor is it the intention that the name of skopje should be compounded with any geographical designation. the european union has a duty to help the people of kosovo, and to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo, to help the people of kosovo.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. it shows no respect for its relations with its neighbours and is blatantly fomenting anti-greece irredentism.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance, and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in this house because the real meaning is not in the details but in where state aid is going.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid, i am voting in favour, because the real meaning is not in the details but in the direction in which state aid is directed.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid because, after examining the proposal for a council regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid, the consultative group has found by common agreement that the proposal does indeed merely codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ we need to focus on where state aid is going.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance, and i am voting in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the presence of the house because it is a simple procedural matter.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because i consider it to be a simple procedural matter.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union because, after examining the proposal for a council regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the consultative working party has by common agreement concluded that, in the introductory phrase of article 33 of the draft consolidated text, the phrase provided for in article 35 should read as follows: provided for in article 34. the consultative group's examination of the proposal led it to the unanimous conclusion that the proposal was indeed a mere codification of existing texts without any change in substance.
in writing. - it's a simple matter of procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i believe that no exemption is allowed for budgets that spend european citizens' money on neo-colonial policies that do nothing but constantly create problems throughout the world.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's 2013 discharge because i do not wish to give any discharge to budgets that waste european citizens' money on neo-colonial policies that do nothing but continually create problems all over the world.
in writing. ‒ for reasons of lack of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient data on the implementation of the budget under voting of the institution concerned, i vote against the report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's 2013 discharge.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to any discharge on budgets that do nothing but spend the money of european citizens on neo-colonial policies, thus continually creating problems throughout the world.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the text covers a wide range of the work done and the commitments of the committee of the regions but does not give the necessary financial figures to exempt this section of the dg which is the substance of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs in the 2013 eu general budget because the information provided on the financial amounts does not justify the granting of a discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency; (b) sound documentation; (c) reliability; (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial envelopes of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds does not justify their release for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because there are issues of european parliament competence in the report which are not developed to the extent necessary and do not give a clear picture of the situation.
in writing. my vote is in favour of the negative because a number of questions from members have not been answered, either orally or in writing, with the result that parliament does not have the necessary relevant information to enable it to take an informed decision on certain aspects of its discharge. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the budgetary situation in the member states.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency; (b) sound documentation; (c) reliability; (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the institution concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section i european parliament.
in writing. ‒ a number of questions from members were not answered, either orally or in writing, with the result that parliament does not have the relevant information to be able to take a reasoned decision on certain aspects of his discharge, and there are also pending financial data to give a fuller and clearer picture of the implementation of the hr.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the council continues to refuse to cooperate with the european parliament on the issue of discharge. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on budgetary control to postpone the discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report as not all the actions required to close the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council have been completed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ in so far as the postponement of the decision on the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013 is justified, my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we disregard this report because not all actions required to close the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council, have been completed.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, and the european external action service
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the discharge to the european external action service because the information provided on the financial figures of section x - european external action service does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section x european external action service.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of section x (european external action service) of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge of the corresponding service
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, and in particular in respect of the court of justice of the european union
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the text covers a wide range of the court's work and obligations but does not give the necessary financial figures for the discharge of this section of the general secretariat which is the substance of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report entitled 'exemption 2013: eu general budget - court of justice' because the information provided on the financial amounts of section iv - court of justice does not justify the granting of an exemption under the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iv court of justice.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial figures of section iv court of justice does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, and in particular for the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the text covers a wide range of the work done and the obligations of the court of auditors but does not give the necessary financial figures for the discharge of this section of the dg which is the substance of the report
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report 'disclaimer 2013: eu general budget - court of auditors' because the data provided on the financial figures of section v 'court of auditors' do not justify the granting of a discharge to the court of auditors in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section v court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of section v court of auditors does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, and in particular in respect of the european economic and social committee
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the text covers a wide range of the work done and the obligations of the european economic and social committee but does not give the necessary financial figures for the discharge of this section of the dg which is the substance of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is in the negative because the information provided on the financial figures of section vi european economic and social committee does not justify the discharge to be given to the institution in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the institution concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vi european economic and social committee.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of section vi european economic and social committee does not justify the granting of a discharge to that institution in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the text covers a wide range of the work done and the commitments of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds but does not give the necessary financial figures for the discharge of the director-general of that fund, which is the substance of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is in the negative because the information provided on the financial figures of section vii committee of the regions does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the institution concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vii committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial figures of section vii committee of the regions does not justify the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because this text supports the annual report on the ombudsman's activities in 2013, which was adopted by the plenary on 15 january 2015, but was voted against by us
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report 'discharge 2013: eu general budget - european ombudsman' because the information provided on the financial figures of section viii european ombudsman does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section viii european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial figures of section viii european ombudsman does not justify his discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the report does not provide sufficient financial data for the evaluation of the european data protection supervisor and it covers several areas where there should be improvement in its functioning.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the information provided on the financial envelope of section ix european data protection supervisor does not justify his discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the commission has also not clearly indicated that the implementation of the recommendation on the security of the data contained in the claims is complete and operational. for the reasons stated above, my vote is against.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i vote against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ix european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial dimensions of section ix european data protection supervisor does not justify his discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, nor does it clearly state that the implementation of the recommendation on the safeguarding of the security of the data contained in the claims is complete and operational.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the existence and continuation of the eu's watertight, oversized and numerous operating mechanism wastes the resources of european citizens and does not achieve the union's economic prosperity, growth, security and stability.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the 2013 financial year in respect of the performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies because the existence and continuation of the eu's watershed, oversized and multi-functional mechanism wastes the resources of european citizens and does not contribute to the union's economic prosperity, growth, security and stability.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency; (b) sound documentation; (c) reliability; (d) sufficient evidence of the implementation of the budget under voting of the agencies concerned, i reject the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union bodies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control.
in writing. ‒ the existence and continuation of the eu's watertight, overwhelming and numerous operating machinery wastes european citizens' resources and fails to achieve the union's economic prosperity, growth, security and stability.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because we have found weaknesses in the internal controls.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, as weaknesses were observed in the internal controls.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the european regulator for electronic communications for the financial year 2013 because it is proposed despite the existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled objectives.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ there are a number of outstanding issues and a failure to meet the objectives set.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, because the discharge is proposed despite the existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled objectives.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there are still outstanding issues and the objectives set have still not been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training, which is based in thessaloniki, for the financial year 2013 and for this reason i voted in favour of the report in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because procedures of high inherent risk have been identified and could not be examined.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013 because of the high-risk procedures which could not be examined.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to be given to the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge granted to the european police college (cepol) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 as it is not in line with the court of auditors' 'pending' observations, the calls for the publication of declarations of interests of cepol staff, the lack of information on the expenditure paid, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because the granting of discharge to the european police college (cepol) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not in line with the court of auditors' 'pending' observations, the calls for the publication of declarations of interests by cepol staff, the lack of information on expenditure paid, etc.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the european police college (cepol) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because there is still no overall agreement between the agency and the host member state on the seat, which for us is a necessary condition for its proper functioning.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is in the negative because the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the granting of a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to be given to the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge to the european support office (easo) for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, as it is not in line with the court of auditors' 'pending' observations, the concerns about late payments, the adoption of 18 recommendations by the commission's internal audit service, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because the discharge to the european support office (easo) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not in line with the court of auditors' 'outstanding' observations, the concerns about late payments, the adoption of 18 recommendations by the commission's internal audit service, etc.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial figures of the european asylum support office (easo) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the discharge to the european banking authority (eba) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not in line with our positions on the european system of financial supervision (esfs) and the european supervisory authorities (esa) etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is negative because the discharge to the european banking authority (eba) for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not in line with my positions on the european system of financial supervision (esfs) and the european supervisory authorities (esa), etc.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the european banking authority (eba) does not justify the discharge to be given to the authority in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 because it proposes a discharge even though there are still outstanding issues and unfulfilled targets.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ there are still outstanding issues and the objectives set have not been achieved.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because the executive director of the agency has expressed a reservation on the statement of assurance for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013, as the executive director of the agency has reserved the statement of assurance for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european chemicals agency.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the agency's checks are based on document analysis and on-the-spot checks are rare. the existing control systems also provide limited safeguards against the risk of a disruption of the supply of services.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, because the agency's verifications consist of a document-based analysis and on-the-spot verifications are rare. the existing control locks also provide limited safeguards.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european environment agency.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 because it proposes a discharge despite the continued existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled objectives.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there are still outstanding issues and the objectives set have still not been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because a deficiency and lack of internal control has been identified
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, as insufficiency and lack of internal control were identified.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to be given to the european food safety authority.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 because it is proposed despite the existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled objectives. i think that further checking is required.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it does not comply with the financial circuits laid down in the financial regulation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013 for non-compliance with the provisions on financial circuits laid down in the financial regulation.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to be given to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the degree of implementation of the 10 actions referred to as 'ready for review' was insufficient.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as the degree of implementation of the ten actions referred to as 'ready for review' was insufficient.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the agency may be serving commercial interests with some of its actions and we would like further explanations on this.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013, because i consider that the agency, with some of its actions, may serve commercial interests. i would like to have further explanations on this subject.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to be given to the european medicines agency.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not in line with the 'ongoing' observations of the court of auditors, the concerns about the evaluation criteria in the process of concluding contracts for the lease of office equipment, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is negative because the discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is neither in line with the court of auditors' observations which are still 'in progress' nor with the concerns about the evaluation criteria in the procedure for the summary of contracts for the lease of office equipment, etc.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the discharge to the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 cannot be given because of outstanding observations and projects, despite the agency's commendable effort in the area of compliance with the number of observations, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is negative because, despite the agency's commendable effort in the area of compliance with the multitude of observations, etc., i consider that a discharge cannot be granted to the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 due to the observations and the projects that remain pending.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned under voting, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the decision of the european parliament's committee on budgets to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa), which is based in heraklion, and for this reason i voted in favour. i voted against the resolution accompanying this resolution, however, because it contained proposals which endangered the agency's presence in heraklion, essentially proposing its complete transfer to athens, without taking into account the efforts of the greek government and the local community of heraklion to provide the necessary logistical infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against as the granting of a discharge to the eu agency for network and information security (enisa) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 would only be possible if all the issues had been resolved without any outstanding issues.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because i believe that a discharge to the eu agency for network and information security (enisa) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 would be possible only if all the issues were resolved without any outstanding issues.
in writing. ‒ for the reasons i have set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 28/04/2015 and for reasons of lack of time: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence of the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i vote against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the eu agency for network and information security (enisa) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the agency does not comply with the current internal control standard.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013, as the agency does not comply with the applicable internal control standard.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european railway agency.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013 because the discharge is proposed despite the continued existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled targets.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there are still outstanding issues and the objectives set have still not been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i am voting because the foundation has fully complied with all the recommendations of the internal audit service.
in writing. i reject the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013 because the foundation has fully complied with all the indications of the internal audit service.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european training foundation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the granting of a discharge to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not in line with the observations on the lack of reliable data on the total cost of developing the systems, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is negative because the granting of a discharge to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not consistent with the observations on the lack of reliable data on the total cost of developing the systems, etc.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the agency operating under a transparent regime and complying with the recommendations of the eeas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013, because the agency operates under a transparent regime and complies with the instructions of the eeas.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to be given to the european agency for safety and health at work.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the documentation on the basic elements of internal controls is inadequate.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, because the documentation on the main elements of internal controls is insufficient.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the euratom supply agency.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because a full agreement between the foundation and the host member state on the seat has not yet been signed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, as no comprehensive agreement has yet been signed between the foundation and the host member state on the seat.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 because it proposes a discharge despite the continued existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled objectives. i think that further checks are needed.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled objectives is identified. further verification is required.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the granting of discharge to the european police office (europol) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not consistent with the observations on the efficiency of public procurement which were affected by decisions not based on specific selection criteria and realistic price offers etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against granting discharge to the european police office (europol) for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013, because i do not believe that the issue of the effectiveness of public procurement, which was affected by decisions not based on specific selection criteria and realistic price offers, etc., has been resolved.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of: (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the european police office (europol) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting because the granting of a discharge to the eu agency for fundamental rights (fra) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is possible as the observations of the commission's internal audit service (ias) have been restored and the court of auditors, after an audit, has not made any observations.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of granting a discharge to the eu agency for fundamental rights (fra) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, because the observations of the commission's internal audit service (ias) have been implemented and because the court of auditors has not made any further observations following its audit.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fundamental rights agency of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the information provided on the financial dimensions of the eu agency for fundamental rights (fra) justifies its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the granting of discharge to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu (frontex) in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not in line with the 'ongoing' observations of the court of auditors, the deficiencies in transparency and equality in the recruitment procedures, the reasonable uncertainty about the legality and regularity of the agency, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is in the negative because the information provided on the financial figures of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu (frontex) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the information provided on the financial envelope of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu (frontex) does not justify its discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss supervisory authority for the financial year 2013 because it proposes a discharge despite the continued existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled targets.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the existence of outstanding issues and unfulfilled objectives is identified. further verification is required.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because there is no internal control structure.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 because no internal audit function has been established.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge because i agree with the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because a case has been identified where the same official has endorsed the commitment, both as financial controller and as authorising officer.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, because a case was identified where the same official endorsed the commitment, both as financial controller and as authorising officer.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence as regards the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget under voting, i am voting in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because there has been no report on the contributions of all members except the commission
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as no report has been submitted on the contributions of all members other than the commission.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because there is a need to clarify certain aspects of the joint undertaking's procedure with regard to the financial sustainability checks.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as there is a need to clarify certain aspects of the joint undertaking's procedure with regard to the financial sustainability checks.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because there is no action plan to correct the shortcomings and errors identified by the court.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013, as no action plan has been submitted to correct the deficiencies and errors identified by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the action plans adopted by the joint undertaking following internal audits have not been fully implemented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion for the financial year 2013, as the action plans adopted by the joint undertaking following internal audits have not been fully implemented.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget under voting, i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the iter joint undertaking and the fusion energy development.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the annual rate of achievement of the objectives was 82% and we believe that this performance must be improved to make the money of european taxpayers worthwhile.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, because the annual rate of completion of the objectives was 82% and i believe that this performance needs to be improved in order to justify the money of the european taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient evidence regarding the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the sesar joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against because money market mutual funds (mmfs) feed the profit-seeking of investors and donors by involving obvious credit risks. the logic of protecting buyers when financial markets are in difficulty is an indirect support for the banking game. in addition, the adoption of guidelines by the committee of european securities regulators (cesr), as well as external credit rating (reminds trioica), is a direct attempt to override national rules, i.e. national sovereignty. the economic policy in the eu is far from basic investment protection standards, as no capital guarantee is given to preserve the value of the investment. the recent haircut (psi) in greece with its known effects on the insurance funds and the micro-bond holders, is a tragic example of avoiding such policies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money market mutual funds (mmfs) feed the profit motive of investors and donors by carrying obvious credit risks. the logic of protecting 'buyers' when financial markets are in difficulty is an indirect support for the banking 'game'. in addition, the adoption of guidelines by the european committee of securities regulators (cesr), as well as external credit rating (reminds trioica), is a direct attempt to override national rules, i.e. national sovereignty. the economic policy in the eu is far from basic investment protection standards, as no capital guarantee is given to maintain the value of the investment. the recent haircut (psi) in greece with its known effects on insurance funds and micro-credit holders is a tragic example of avoiding such policies. i therefore vote against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on money market mutual funds.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to postpone the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ the money market mutual funds (mmfs) feed the profit motive of investors and donors by carrying obvious credit risks. the logic of protecting buyers when financial markets are in difficulty is an indirect support for the banking game. moreover, the adoption of guidelines by the committee of european securities regulators (cesr), like external credit assessment, is a direct attempt to override national rules, i.e. national sovereignty. the economic policy in the eu is far from basic investment protection standards, as no capital guarantee is given to preserve the value of the investment. the recent haircut (psi) in greece with its known effects on the insurance funds and the micro-bond holders, is a tragic example of avoiding such policies.
in writing. ‒ καταψηφίζω την συγκεκριμένη πρόταση καθώς διαφωνώ στην ουσία της συγκεκριμένης διαδικασίας. κρίνω ότι η εισαγωγή κλωστοϋφαντουργικών προϊόντων από την ν. κορέα και τη λευκορωσία έρχεται ενάντια στις ανάγκες των εθνικών οικονομιών της εε και ότι ενισχύει την ψαλίδα στο ισοζύγιο εισαγωγών - εξαγωγών με αποτέλεσμα οι βιοτεχνίες της ευρώπης να ερημώνουν. θεωρώ ότι η ήδη δοκιμαζόμενη ευρωπαϊκή οικονομία πρέπει να ενισχυθεί με πρωτοβουλίες που θα ενισχύσουν τις εξαγωγές ευρωπαϊκών προϊόντων.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements or other union import rules because it is comprehensive and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the import of textiles from third countries runs counter to the needs of the eu's national economies and negatively reinforces the gap in the import-export balance, with the result that europe's industries are being depleted. we believe that the european economy, which is already suffering, should be strengthened by initiatives to boost exports of european products.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report because i disagree with the proposal's attempt to exercise substantive control over how each mep uses his monthly budget. it commits him to a limited financial allowance for the amount he can spend on staff in his own country, while ensuring that, by the mandatory recruitment of accredited assistants, a large part of the money will remain in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the estimated revenue and expenditure situation of the european parliament for the financial year 2016 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 28/04/2015.
in writing. ‒ the the rapporteur proposes that the number of local assistants that each mep may employ be capped in the final (amended) text, so that there is a relative balance between local and accredited assistants. the reason we voted against is because this proposal essentially exercises control over how each member of the european parliament will use his monthly budget. in particular, it commits him to a limited financial margin which he can use to recruit staff in his own country, while ensuring that, with the mandatory recruitment of accredited assistants, a large part of the money will remain in effect in brussels.
in writing. i am voting against the interim report as i am in favour of the establishment of an independent authority which will help to prosecute fraud against the eu's financial interests more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office because i disagree with its content and because it was not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. the kke voted against the interim report on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office because it concerns a new repressive mechanism created in the name of 'fighting crimes against the eu's financial interests'. the kke strongly condemns any squandering of public money which is in any case the result of heavy taxation of the people's incomes. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is, however, aimed at the workers' and people's movement and its struggles, because the envisaged possibility of extending its powers to the fight against any serious crime with cross-border action (article 86 (4) tfeu) leaves a lot of room for interpretation. it will be able to prosecute these offences directly before the competent courts of the member states . we believe that, despite the competition between member states on the issue of the creation of euro-agency, the people must be vigilant because they have had a bitter experience of the use of these repressive mechanisms by the eu institutions and the bourgeois governments of the member states to curb popular freedoms, under the pretext of terrorism, the criminalization of trade union activity, judicial bans on the right to strike and the drastic limitation of their democratic rights.
in writing. ‒ we are in favour of the establishment of an independent authority which will contribute to the more effective prosecution of fraud and corruption.
in writing. the kke voted against the interim report on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office because it concerns a new repressive mechanism created in the name of 'fighting crimes against the eu's financial interests'. the kke strongly condemns any squandering of public money which is in any case the result of heavy taxation of the people's incomes. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is, however, aimed at the workers' and people's movement and its struggles, because the envisaged possibility of extending its powers to the fight against any serious crime with cross-border action (article 86 (4) tfeu) leaves a lot of room for interpretation. it will be able to prosecute these offences directly before the competent courts of the member states . we believe that, despite the competition between member states on the issue of the creation of euro-agency, the people must be vigilant because they have had a bitter experience of the use of these repressive mechanisms by the eu institutions and the bourgeois governments of the member states to curb popular freedoms, under the pretext of terrorism, the criminalization of trade union activity, judicial bans on the right to strike and the drastic limitation of their democratic rights.
the commission mr president, the situation in burundi is of concern to us once again. a short while ago, i was speaking about the persecution of the journalist rugurika. we said then that we must be careful because conflicts could start and we could have the sad results of the past, when the civil war that lasted from 1993 to 2005 resulted in 300,000 deaths. we are learning today that outgoing president pierre nkurunziza has decided to run for a third term. this has created reactions which have of course been met with violent repression. many people were arrested, others lost their lives. these persecutions must stop. the restriction of the freedom of the press must stop. the problem concerns us because we have 20,000 refugees who are fleeing to rwanda and the democratic republic of congo. we are sounding the alarm because there is a risk that the waves of refugees from that country will increase and create even greater problems.
the commission mr president, the tragic and reprehensible murder of 147 students at the university of garissa in kenya has brought to light a reality to which we have unfortunately not paid due attention until now. it is about the murder of christians all over the world by extremist islamic organizations. a report by open doors states that of the 50 countries that currently persecute christians, 40 are muslim. that is to say, 80% of christians are persecuted by muslims regardless of their political affiliation. it should therefore come as no surprise that christians are being targeted by radical islamist terrorists. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we are more concerned with violating the rights of terrorists than protecting the lives of their victims. no one but god has the right to decide how long we will live, where we will die, and when we will die. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. our patience and tolerance have limits and those have now been exhausted.
the commission madam president, the persecution and massacres of christians in various parts of the world cannot be tolerated. the latest case was the horrific slaughter of 147 christian students on kenya's garissa university campus by somalia-based al-shabaab. the jihadists of isis, boko haram, al-shabaab, are stepping up their attacks against christians in syria, libya, kenya, nigeria and other parts of the world. of course, the jihadists are also acting against muslims in various arab countries. the jihadists are trying to provoke religious wars, which, as we know from history, are particularly bloody. but the causes of conflict in kenya and the horn of africa have no religious basis. it is due to poverty, to the seizure of land, to the over-exploitation of christians and muslims by various powerful economic interests. i wonder if the clash of civilizations theory that was developed a few decades ago was a prediction or was a self-fulfilling prophecy.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we are discussing the destruction of cultural sites by the islamic state. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i shall not mention the responsibilities of the european union's policy, both in relation to the isis phenomenon and to the tragedy of the peoples of the region. i would like to mention the obvious danger of the propaganda of the 'clash of civilizations' becoming a cover for the policy being pursued. this is a danger that is hidden even in the 'innocent' expressions of europe's leaders. the extreme of intolerance is not a natural phenomenon. it is spawned by policies which threaten peoples with the uniqueness of their own truth, blackmail peoples into accepting that truth and do not hesitate to destroy peoples in the name of that truth. culture means respect for the identity, tradition, memory, culture, autonomy and freedom of the other. we all condemn the brutality of isis. but in defending our culture, are we prepared to reflect and confront the barbarity that neoliberal fundamentalism produces?
madam president, we have all watched with horror the videos of the systematic destruction of monuments of art by isis fighters in the areas they control in order to terrorize the whole world. but apart from the disasters, isis also acts as an archaeologist at an international level because it carries out illegal excavations in the areas where there are hellenistic, roman and byzantine monuments and sells illegally abroad as many antiquities come to light. all of the above activities are not mere destruction. they constitute a cultural cleansing which aims to erase from the memory of peoples their cultural origins. they are a challenge to civilized humanity and, above all, to the european union, which must react and must cooperate with the un and unesco to protect all cultural monuments from the wrath of the islamists. it is necessary to classify the destruction of cultural monuments as a war crime and to provide for their legal protection by the creation of a military force to be deployed in the areas where antiquities are to prevent their destruction.
the commission madam president, on february 26th isis pulverized many ancient assyrian statues in the museum of mosul in iraq. on march 20, jihadists claimed responsibility for the terrorist attack on the national museum of tunisia in tunis. a short time ago, jihadists razed the ancient syrian city of nimrud to the ground. the destruction of monuments and religious buildings is aimed at destabilising populations and destroying their cultural heritage. the jihadists are plundering the archaeological treasures of iraq, just as the nazis did, who during the german occupation plundered the archaeological treasures of greece. the jihadists, like the nazis, are engaged in a lucrative smuggling operation of archaeological treasures. the protection of archaeological sites is the subject of a relevant unesco convention, and the systematic destruction of cultural heritage by jihadists constitutes a crime against humanity.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the islamic state is a large-scale criminal organisation that systematically destroys and pillages religious and other cultural monuments. unfortunately, however, the islamic state is neither the only nor the first entity to operate in this way in the wider geographical area of the middle east and the eastern mediterranean. it is a few decades ahead of the turkish state, which the european union has even recognised as a candidate country for membership. the turkish army in cyprus has destroyed christian churches in the occupied territories and has been plundering and smuggling antiquities from there. just recently, the mufti of ankara, in response to pope francis' condemnation of the armenian genocide, threatened to turn the hagia sophia in istanbul from a museum into a mosque, so it is to be expected that its priceless frescoes would be at risk. the european union must deal with vandalism wherever it comes from.
the commission madam president, the arrest on 13 march of mohamed nasheed, the first democratically elected president of the maldives, a man opposed to violence, and his sentence to 13 years in prison is the culmination of the limitation of democracy in the maldives. other decisions by the parliament of that country have followed, restricting democratic rights, the activity of civil society organisations and journalists. the situation in that country is therefore critical and recent events demonstrate the need for profound democratic changes. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. the pluralist democracy in the maldives must finally work and close the door to the jihadists. the european union must exhaust all the means at its disposal to help restore freedom of the press and the rule of law in the maldives.
the commission madam president, from a highly stalinist country in the hoxha era, albania has passed into an era of socialist lawlessness, state and private corruption and lawlessness and escalating national intolerance. the collapse of the state and its structures in the early 1990s was accompanied by raids on arms depots and the dispersal of huge quantities of arms to both extremist organisations and organised crime, as well as by migration flows to greece and italy. the economic and social inequalities, the inability and/or refusal of the respective governments to create a structured state and to manage internal problems, find an outlet through albanian irredentism. unfortunately, albania, in breach of any notion of good neighbourliness, is promoting the idea of a greater albania and is claiming territories of greece, serbia and fyrom. the great mistake made by the west in kosovo demonstrates how superficially and how subserviently the european union has worked in the western balkans in the interests of big business. for the same reasons albania and turkey have no place in the european union, unless we want to have muslim fundamentalists in our countries, unless we have to give european passports to the millions of albanians and turks who are ready to flood the member states of the european union.
the commission madam president, the revival of albanian nationalism is particularly worrying as tirana is promoting, with kosovo as a lever, the redemptive idea of greater albania which demands a change of borders in the balkans and territories belonging to greece. the albanian leadership must realise that the country's european path passes through athens. if albania continues to pursue an illegal and irrational redemptive policy against greece, which for decades has hosted and provided bread and work for thousands of albanian economic migrants living in our country, then the albanian leadership will only succeed in irreparably damaging greek-albanian relations and its own european path. at the same time, albania must realize that it must respect the rights of the greek minority in northern epirus, which it is brutally violating - a minority with a population of over 250 thousand people. in accordance with the conclusions of the european council, the general affairs council, albania must ensure equal treatment of all minorities in albania.
the commission madam president, sixteen years after the brutal war in yugoslavia in 1999 by nato and the european union, which claimed thousands of lives, their only objective has been to exploit untapped markets for gold-bearing businesses and to control the wealthy energy sources and their transport routes. the european union is now pursuing the same objective of integrating albania and all the western balkans into the european union, in competition with america and russia. despite their hypocritical statements, the european union and the bourgeois forces in the region are fomenting ethnic and religious differences and encouraging national idealism, the redrawing of borders, the repeated threat of albania's union with the kosovo protectorate. profits for the monopolies, divide and rule for the people who found no human rights, only exploitation, poverty and refuge. the peace and prosperity of the peoples and of the balkans lie in the reversal of this path, against the european union and capital.
madam president, in this progress report knut fleckenstein managed indeed to include almost everything that is of great political importance to us, but i will also underline that rama’s government has been undertaking a major round of reforms over the past years and some of the requested sectors have progressed. as a result, the european council recognised these efforts, granting candidate status with a decision of june 2014. such an action serves as an encouragement to step up the pace of the reforms and continue the high-level dialogue with the commission. the s&d as a political group has always been supportive of albanian eu membership. however, allow me to underline that further steps should be taken with regard to reforming the judicial system, promoting structural reforms and economic governance, and improving the infrastructure for connectivity with neighbouring balkan states. also, special focus should and must be placed on the protection of minorities and on securing equal rights for them, on respect towards human rights in general, and on the efforts needed to achieve full reconciliation and good neighbourly relations with the balkans.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, a year ago the european union accepted albania as a candidate for membership, thus indirectly recognising that it respects human rights. however, the albanian government, as a modern day crete, still refuses to allow the search and identification of the bones of the thousands of greek soldiers who died there, heroically defending their homeland against italian fascism in 1940-41, despite the fact that it undertook a corresponding obligation by signing the 2009 greek-albanian agreement. this is an insult to the human dignity of the relatives of the deceased, who are unable to bury them and to fulfill antigone's moral duty towards their loved ones. if albania wants to proceed with the accession process, it must implement the 2009 agreement as well as the council of europe convention for the protection of national minorities and in particular the greek national minority on its territory.
the commission madam president, although the european union has offered an opportunity to bosnia and herzegovina for a concerted effort and approach to continue the reform process and improve the country's social and economic situation, there are still many concerns about the speed and quality of the necessary reforms, which must include the implementation of the rule of law, the fight against organised crime and corruption, decent public administration and respect for human rights. the february 2014 protests showed that the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina are struggling against government corruption, poverty, unemployment and social exclusion. they are fighting for social and economic reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, bosnia and herzegovina must combat organised crime and discriminatory treatment against roma and must also respect the rights of returning bosnian serbs.
the commission i think it is important, mr president, that the so-called human rights clause be included in the regulation on autonomous trade measures, because if there is a violation of human rights in the western balkan countries, we have the possibility of suspending all these preferences. this is not only the case in bosnia, where the rights of the roma are being violated, but also of the returning bosnian serbs, and in albania, where there are huge and significant violations of the rights of the greek ethnic minority in northern epirus. the same applies to the minorities in skopje. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to amend the directive. the second point is also important because bosnia must take into account the fact that croatia is a member of the european union. we're taking the measurements right. but we must take similar measures against turkey, because it does not recognise the fact that cyprus is now a member of the european union and does not allow cypriot ships to approach turkish ports. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish cypriots are not subject to any form of discrimination, and that they are not subject to any form of discrimination.
the commission the european union is committed to the development of the union's external relations, and to the promotion of the union's external relations. the development aid provided by the european union cannot reverse this situation. if we really want to make a serious contribution to the developing world, then there must be a cancellation of the national debt, that is, of their debts to the international monetary fund, the world bank and the african development bank. i raised this issue on 12 september with a question to the commission, bearing in mind that on 9 september 2014 a resolution was adopted by the united nations general assembly setting out and strengthening the procedures for a sustainable solution to the debt problem of developing countries and for member states to stop being treated by international creditors as enterprises. i think it is important that the european commission, which replied to me on 22 october, also considers this to be an important un resolution because it is considering the procedures, in discussions with the international monetary fund, which will allow the restructuring of the public debt. the issue is now on the table and we must deal with it. i said, for example, on 11 march in this chamber that we should proceed with the cancellation of the debt of the west african countries hit by ebola, because they have no health and hospital care system, precisely because the imf had forced them to make cuts in public spending. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution. i think that this is not a major achievement, because it is the implementation of the un convention itself, which provides for specific rights for disabled people. this will enable the blind to have equal opportunities, to participate in society, to be given a stronger right to education. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training, the establishment of a european centre for vocational training and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training. i believe that all this must be overcome and that we must, here and now, find a solution, because the situation will not be facilitated by any changes in copyright legislation made in the future, because the problem is human and because the profits cannot be above the people themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. mr hoyer, mr mimica, the urtasun report is an opportunity to present your plans and your report. you seemed very pleased with yourselves, but the numbers say more needs to be done, investment in europe is 15% lower than it was in 2009. unemployment has increased, poverty has increased, youth unemployment has increased enormously. youth unemployment has gone up too much. there are countries where the decline in investment, as in my country, greece, is many times greater, and in recent years the rate of disinvestment has risen to 50%. so instead of resting, more needs to be done and more money given to public intervention to boost investment, and private capital, and the criteria must be changed so as to support regions and countries like greece which suffer from higher unemployment and higher disinvestment and, of course, more needs to be done for young people. finally, it is not enough to say that we want transparency, you must stop using and cooperating with countries that work through tax havens and adopt tax fraud practices. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i agree with you. and the money must be more, and the criteria must be more rigorous and transparent, and they must not only be banking indicators but also social indicators, and of course the member states, with the responsibility of their governments, must not just absorb the money but use it, because some do not even absorb it and others absorb it without adding to growth.
the commission madam president, as the european investment bank is not a commercial bank, it must continue to play a key role in financing long-term investment in infrastructure, energy, research, transport and innovation. austerity has filled the european union with armies of unemployed and the european investment bank is now called upon to act as a pure development bank to finance investments in member states with high unemployment, such as memorandum-impoverished greece, with the aim of social benefit and job creation. the eib's initiative to issue bonds to finance sustainable infrastructure projects and the european central bank's decision to buy eib bonds are moving in the right direction. since smes have created 85% of new jobs in europe, the eib must drastically increase its lending to medium-sized enterprises. finally, the financing of initiatives to reduce youth unemployment should be an important area of eib activity.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. these are the investment priorities of the european investment bank - they have nothing to do with the needs of the people, but only with the concentration of european union capital at their expense, in sectors of priority for its competition with other powers. this is how the juncker package works. these are investments for the capital, with its losses covered and its profits guaranteed. the european investment bank is an investment instrument of the unpopular european union which is not changing. the new anti-people measures announced these days by the new greek government, measures to finance capital and not the needs of the people, measures to continue and intensify the memoranda in greece, are moving in this direction.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem is who is helping whom: the capital wanted to help or the workers? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the milan 2015 report highlights the contemporary problems of feeding the world's poorest people. we need sustainable agriculture, food security, a sustainable food system, safe food, the fight against obesity. the milan 2015 report should highlight the illegal land grabbing by large multinational corporations in africa and elsewhere. at the same time, austerity has led millions of unemployed people in the west to turn to cheap and questionable food. greece's memoranda and destructive austerity policies and cheap, calorie-dense diets are leading to overweight body weight gain in adults and children, putting their health at increased risk, according to a world health organization study released in october 2014.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we are discussing ways of increasing food production so that we can feed the ever-growing human population on earth. but in fact, no matter how much food technology advances, the demographic dynamics in the third world are so explosive that hunger will not only not be eliminated, but will spread in the 21st century. the governments of these countries must therefore be encouraged to promote long-term demographic policies and we must at the same time actively seek to change dietary patterns within the european union. the consumption of foods which have a high cost to the ecological balance of the planet, such as beef and pork and wild-caught fish, must be reduced. the european union must ensure that its citizens are informed through the education system of the need to eat mainly cereals, fruit and vegetables. help save the planet!
the commission madam president, commissioner, in the 1960s, ignorance and inaction led to the destruction of the european vineyard by the disease of leaf blight. there is currently no effective method of protecting the olive against the xylella which has affected olive groves in southern italy. i propose three immediate measures: border controls, measures to control the movement of plant and propagating material, compensation for producers. there are areas with olive trees that are six hundred years old or even more, such as corfu. so we must also look at the protection of the plant environment. we look forward to your initiatives, we are pleased that you are taking this action today and we expect positive results for olive growers in southern europe shortly.
s & d) and the madam president, the appearance of the xylella bacteria on olive trees in italy should serve as a warning signal for the competent services in other countries. xylella is transmitted by insects and destroys not only olive trees but also many other plants, such as vines and citrus trees. we fully agree with the commission's measures, although they have been taken too slowly, and we would like to add that vigilance is required on the part of the authorities of the member states and that the rural world must be informed. in the united states, where the california vines were affected, it was a combined effort by growers, researchers, and state actors that limited the spread. but a comprehensive treatment has not yet been developed. european research on the species of insects carrying the bacterium and on how to protect plants against them should therefore be intensified. in addition, since up to now the only method of control is uprooting, there should be direct compensation to the producer so that the affected trees can be replaced. this will work positively to better collaborate with them so that there is immediate reporting of outbreaks before they become uncontrollable.
the commission the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the measures proposed by the commission are implemented. already, they have cut down and burned eleven million olive trees. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in greece, olive oil production has been one of the basic, traditional activities in the agricultural economy for centuries. the greek olive growers have already been affected by the memorandum policy, they have already been affected by the felling of trees in 2013. we cannot imagine that there will be a cutting of trees, that there will be this total destruction. we therefore call for immediate measures to deal with the problem, a ban on the importation of plants from third countries and compensation, because we cannot accept the dismantling of the agricultural economy and of olive oil production in our country, in crete and in other regions.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the resolution calls on the european parliament and the committee on the environment to call on the european commission to draw up a european strategy to combat the negative consequences of alcohol abuse. it is very important that there should be a european strategy which will continue the very good work of the previous one. but the cultural habits of each people must also be taken into account and a distinction must be made between abuse and moderate consumption. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution by the committee on the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the alcohol strategy as a whole because some articles need very significant improvement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy because i consider it to be complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ some articles need improvement.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on the alcohol strategy, which calls for a new eu alcohol strategy focused on combating underage drinking and including extensive labelling at european level to discourage drinking and driving. eu member states must step up efforts to protect young people, while the european commission must tackle effectively the cross-border sale of alcohol via the internet.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the anniversary of the bangladesh factory fires and the progress of the bangladesh sustainability pact because it generally proposes measures to improve conditions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and developments in the bangladesh sustainability pact for the reasons i outlined in my speech to the european parliament on 27 april 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, due to the imposition of measures that create better conditions.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with parliament's proposals for greater solidarity between member states, for increased funding for the posidoni and trident programmes, for the development of european union actions in countries of origin and for a fairer distribution of asylum seekers, which also requires the amendment of the dublin iii regulation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted against the joint resolution, although it contains correct findings, because it is based on the logic of avoiding the real problem. the report does not seek to find policies to deal with illegal immigration, it does not propose solutions to the problem of trafficking rings and it merely proposes wish lists for a change in the situation of the countries of origin of migrants, when, especially in libya, the problem started with the eu intervention.
in writing. the joint resolution contains some correct observations, but it is essentially a logical attempt to avoid the real problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. there are only wishes for a change in the situation of the countries of origin of migrants, when in libya in particular the problem started with the eu intervention. for the reasons stated above, i shall vote against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because the resolution under consideration is not sufficient. the european union must immediately implement the famous principle of european solidarity. this means that the burden of refugee and migration flows must be distributed among the countries of the european union according to their size, population, gdp and also taking into account the unemployment rate.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean, the union's migration and asylum policy, because i believe that we must raise our voices urgently. solidarity in action is called for. i am not just talking about search and rescue, where i am covered by president juncker's commitments and commissioner avramopoulos' excellent work. only a few member states are facing 80% of the pressure of migration flows. "where are the other partners? " the citizens of greece, malta and italy. but in other countries, far from the mediterranean, the question is the same. we already have thousands of refugees from ukraine in poland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the burden must be shared equally between the member states. it is necessary to establish a binding quota between member states for the distribution of asylum seekers. let us start by giving the possibility to suspend transfers of asylum seekers to member states facing significant pressure. let us establish a mechanism for the internal relocation of migrants within the eu. i think it's time we moved from talking to communicating to doing. we must legislate for real solidarity, for real sharing of responsibility.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report, although it contains correct findings, is unfortunately guided by the logic of avoiding the real problem. the report does not seek to develop policies to deal with illegal immigration, does not propose solutions to the problem of trafficking rings and offers only wishes for a change in the situation of the countries of origin of migrants, when, especially in libya, the problem was started by the eu intervention.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the eu's policies on migration and asylum. the eu should do everything possible to prevent more lives being lost at sea. it is not possible for a few member states, such as greece, to tackle this huge humanitarian problem on their own. it is regrettable that the european council of 23 april did not commit itself to creating a pan-european solidarity mechanism. the european commission should establish as soon as possible a 'binding quota' for the distribution of asylum seekers among all eu countries, based on objective criteria. the problem is european and a european solution is urgently needed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because bosnia and herzegovina does not meet the basic conditions of a state governed by the rule of law and therefore cannot be considered for accession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a member of the central european free trade agreement and does not respect the traditional trade patterns of the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report because bosnia and herzegovina does not meet the basic conditions of a state governed by the rule of law and is therefore far from accession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a member of the central european free trade agreement and does not observe the traditional conditions for conducting intra-eu trade.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the report on the suspension of the application of the exceptional trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina is complete and well documented and should therefore be accepted.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the bosnia and herzegovina does not fulfil basic requirements of a state governed by the rule of law and is therefore far from accession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a member of the central european free trade agreement and does not observe the traditional conditions for conducting intra-eu trade.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the resolution on the murder of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab because i believe that all means have been used and that only a military solution can still be effective.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 29 april 2015. it is a resolution which rightly condemns in the strongest terms the persecution of christians throughout the world and the killing of students in kenya by the jihadists of the al-shabaab group.
in writing. the kke condemns the heinous crimes of both al shabab in kenya and all similar criminal groups. it stresses the enormous responsibilities of the eu and its allies, the us and nato, for arming and supporting all these groups when they wanted to use them as tools of their imperialist interventions in syria, libya, iraq, africa and particularly somalia, the sahel region, nigeria and elsewhere. we condemn in the strongest terms the murder of christians and persons belonging to other religious, national or ethnic minorities, but we are opposed to any attempt to segregate workers on the basis of race, religion or ethnicity, as the amendments tabled seek to do. the resolution is part of the attempt to make the protection of christian populations the new pretext for imperialist interventions and wars by the eu, the usa and nato in the wider region of the southeastern mediterranean, the middle east and north africa, in which the greek co-government is also seeking an active role on behalf of the bourgeoisie, putting the people at enormous risk. the resolution calls on the eu to take military action and to consolidate its military presence in africa, a presence which will cost the peoples of the region dearly.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we must take measures to combat the problem of persecution of christians.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because attacks on religious groups, and in particular on christians, have increased alarmingly all over the world. every day people are being slaughtered, beaten and arrested because of their religion and beliefs. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of this disease, and the european union must be able to take action to prevent it.
in writing. the kke condemns the heinous crimes of both al shabab in kenya and all similar criminal groups. it stresses the enormous responsibilities of the eu and its allies, the us and nato, for arming and supporting all these groups when they wanted to use them as tools of their imperialist interventions in syria, libya, iraq, africa and particularly somalia, the sahel region, nigeria and elsewhere. we condemn in the strongest terms the murder of christians and persons belonging to other religious, national or ethnic minorities, but we are opposed to any attempt to segregate workers on the basis of race, religion or ethnicity, as the amendments tabled seek to do. the resolution is part of the attempt to make the protection of christian populations the new pretext for imperialist interventions and wars by the eu, the usa and nato in the wider region of the southeastern mediterranean, the middle east and north africa, in which the greek co-government is also seeking an active role on behalf of the bourgeoisie, putting the people at enormous risk. the resolution calls on the eu to take military action and to consolidate its military presence in africa, a presence which will cost the peoples of the region dearly.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting because we unequivocally condemn the destruction of monuments by the islamic caliphate. we shall vote against it if the greens' amendment no 10 (the first on the list) is adopted, because they are trying to involve the syrian government, whereas the reality is quite different.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i strongly condemn the destruction of monuments by the islamic caliphate but i am obliged to vote against the resolution because it tries to involve the syrian government, when the reality is completely different.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 29 april 2015. it is a resolution which rightly condemns in the strongest terms the destruction of cultural sites by the jihadists of isis/da'esh.
in writing. the kke categorically and unequivocally condemns the crimes, vandalism and looting of the jihadists against priceless historical monuments and works of world civilization of humanity. the jihadists' links to the antiquities trafficking rings for the sale of looted archaeological treasures, with the eager buyers being in the lap of the crony plutocracy, show that the creator of the jihadist monster is the eu-us-nato imperialists, the rot of capitalism. the joint resolution of the european parliament says nothing about all this. instead, it is using these heinous acts again to promote the expansion of the eu's network of law enforcement mechanisms, the linking of europol and eurojust with interpol and international cultural organisations, the creation of new law enforcement and surveillance networks, the expansion of ecsc operations such as the eu torrejón satellite centre, the sealing of the eu's external borders, the expansion of the powers of the international criminal court. once again, it is proved that this capitalist association does not hesitate to use anything to forge new bonds, repression, interventions and wars against the peoples in the interests of the monopolies. the only way out for the people is to break free from the eu and the chains of capital, with the producers of wealth taking the helm of power and the economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we strongly condemn the destruction of monuments by the islamic caliphate. the first thing we must do is to take measures to help protect the cultural heritage.
in writing. the kke categorically and unequivocally condemns the crimes, vandalism and looting of the jihadists against priceless historical monuments and works of world civilization of humanity. the jihadists' links to the antiquities trafficking rings for the sale of looted archaeological treasures, with the eager buyers being in the lap of the crony plutocracy, show that the creator of the jihadist monster is the eu-us-nato imperialists, the rot of capitalism. the joint resolution of the european parliament says nothing about all this. instead, it is using these heinous acts again to promote the expansion of the eu's network of law enforcement mechanisms, the linking of europol and eurojust with interpol and international cultural organisations, the creation of new law enforcement and surveillance networks, the expansion of ecsc operations such as the eu torrejón satellite centre, the sealing of the eu's external borders, the expansion of the powers of the international criminal court. once again, it is proved that this capitalist association does not hesitate to use anything to forge new bonds, repression, interventions and wars against the peoples in the interests of the monopolies. the only way out for the people is to break free from the eu and the chains of capital, with the producers of wealth taking the helm of power and the economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution because it does not propose decisive measures to defend human rights and the rule of law in the maldives.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 29 april 2015. it is a resolution which rightly condemns in the strongest terms the arrest of mohamed nasheed and the systematic violation of human rights and democratic rights in general in the maldives by the authorities of that state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ decisive action is needed to defend human rights and the rule of law in the maldives region.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because albania is openly promoting the idea of a greater albania and albanian liberalism, with statements by state officials and its prime minister himself. the commission has also made no progress on the rule of law, social justice and freedom of expression.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the 2014 progress report on albania. albania openly promotes the idea of a greater albania and albanian liberalism, with statements from state officials and the prime minister himself. the commission has also made no progress on the rule of law, social justice and freedom of expression.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2014 progress report on albania for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 29 april 2015. i am opposed to any prospect of albania joining the eu, given that this country is brutally violating the rights of the greek national minority of northern epirus and at the same time its leadership is reviving albanian nationalism and the redemptive idea of a greater albania that demands a change of borders in the balkans and territories belonging to greece.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ albania openly promotes the idea of a greater albania and albanian liberalism through statements by state officials and its prime minister himself, while making absolutely no progress on the rule of law, social justice and freedom of expression.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because bosnia and herzegovina cannot become a member of the eu because of the insurmountable problems it faces at federal level. organized crime, the existence of extremist muslim elements and corruption are fuelled by the current socio-political situation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the 2014 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. bosnia and herzegovina cannot become a member of the eu because of insurmountable problems at the federal level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this disease, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am opposed to any future eu accession of bosnia and herzegovina for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 29 april 2015 and therefore voted against the 2014 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ bosnia and herzegovina is currently unable to become an eu member because of insurmountable problems at the federal level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this disease, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 progress report for bosnia and herzegovina, which reflects the problems and difficulties faced by the candidate country. we all want to put the country back on the eu path, but for that to happen, the authorities will need to show courage in implementing reforms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives a clear picture of the eib's activities, its ambitions, the problems and difficulties it faces, and the areas where it should improve and give greater weight.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the european investment bank and the 2013 annual report. the report gives a clear picture of the eib's activities, its aims, problems and difficulties, but does not ignore the areas where improvement and emphasis are needed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 30 april 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report gives a clear picture of the eib's activities, its objectives, problems and difficulties, and the areas where it needs to improve and give greater weight.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the milan international exhibition 2015: food for the planet, energy as a source of life, because all sectors of production need more know-how and greater respect for the rules of wealth management.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the milan international expo 2015 - food for the planet as a source of life for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament on 30 april 2015. moreover, the report is inadequate and does not address the contemporary challenges to feed the world's poverty-stricken populations but instead advocates for genetically modified foods and organisms (gmos).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we need to put more emphasis on know-how and respect the rules of wealth management.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the situation in nigeria as a whole because, while an effort is needed to solve this serious problem, the report is devoted to minor issues.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that it fully describes the situation in nigeria.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the proposed solutions inflate rather than solve the problem. such an approach will allow illegal immigration to continue to flourish and create further problems in europe.
the commission mr president, well-known banking giants such as deutsche bank have been fined for manipulating the libor benchmark, thus illegally earning hundreds of billions of euros. but that is not enough, since, after the economic crisis, the banks that were rescued with taxpayers' money are pursuing their cruel and unreasonable policy against small borrowers and are hammering thousands of homes in southern europe. a major problem has also arisen in greece for small borrowers of swiss franc mortgages. more than 70,000 borrowers were thus put at a disadvantage in terms of the cost of repaying their loans after conversion on the basis of the euro/swiss franc exchange rate, as the banks, in breach of european union consumer law, failed to inform them that each monthly instalment paid was charged with a conversion cost. the european union, in cooperation with the greek authorities, must therefore take immediate measures to protect the borrowers of swiss franc mortgages, who have recently lost more than eur 1 billion as a result of the sharp fall in the euro.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the deutsche bank scandal reminds me of the shameful role played by deutsche bank during the occupation in greece when it literally dehumanized the greek people. and because germany still does not pay its debts to greece, deutsche bank continues its destructive role. the other point i want to raise is: are we wasting our time trying to save the banks with finance capital when what has happened in greece proves that all these years the greek people have been working hard to save finance capital? i'm referring to a specific fact: the bank of greece revealed that, in the period from 2010 to 2014, we borrowed 226 billion euros and we returned 270 billion euros, which is 33 billion more. that alone defines the shame of all our efforts.
the commission mr president, as representatives of the peoples of europe, we have an obligation to put the dignity of citizens, the end of poverty and the transformation of citizens' lives at the centre of all development activities. the report under discussion is about development finance for the poor, gender-sensitive and climate-safe. it talks about sustainable development, public goods and important commitments: i am in full agreement with the content, but i disagree with the target group for this aid. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in the near future. it is very difficult to explain to the greek citizens of the memorandum why social resources should be allocated to third countries and not to combat inequalities within the european union.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the resolution of the un general assembly of september 2014 on the restructuring of the sovereign debt must therefore be implemented immediately, so that usurious lenders and the imf will no longer treat sovereign states as businesses. that is why the developing world's sovereign debts must be written off. in the context of the euro area, the states that have entered into a memorandum are required to make use of regulation 472/2013 of the european union and to proceed with an audit of the debt and then to a write-off of the defaulted debt. my country, greece, has received 214 billion euros in loans from the imf and the european union in the last five years, but it has over one and a half million unemployed and thousands of poor people. where 's the money ? didn't they go back into the pockets of the creditors? but that's exactly what happened. and this, well, this profiteering little piggy has got to stop. and that will be when greece proceeds to write off its embarrassing debt.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i welcome the emphasis in today's debate on growth in non-eu states on the recommendation that sustainable solutions to public debt problems be sought. i would stress the reference in the recommendation to the need for a stable legal framework for the restructuring of public debts, where necessary, with a view to debt relief and avoiding unsustainable over-indebtedness of states. the problem is not just with third world countries, but also within the eurozone itself, where most countries have accumulated debt of over 120% of their gdp, more than double the limit allowed under the maastricht treaty. we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to this huge problem at home which threatens the foundations of the union and to talk only about the third world. put aside the ideology of austerity and give breathing space to societies by restructuring the debt of the over-indebted.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all i have heard here is half-measures. that is why i am calling for vat to be abolished and i want to analyse and explain this. theoretically, in principle, you should all know that it belongs to indirect taxes and not to direct taxes. direct taxes are always at the expense of the people. but let us look at what vat actually is: a value-added tax. in addition to what? when you buy a book, do you add value because you're the new reader? think about that! when you consume a product, does that mean you're adding value to the new product? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i propose that it be abolished.
the commission mr president, the credit strangulation of my country, greece, by the usurious lenders, led by mario draghi and his cronies at the european central bank, has been the dominant feature of the last three months. the aim of the creditors is to impose the hard memorandum policy of austerity, cutting wages and pensions and selling off public property in exchange for a billboard. but the financial staff of the greek government, instead of laying hands on the reserves of the insurance funds and the municipalities, should immediately make use of article 7 of regulation 3603/1993, which allows exceptional monetary financing of governments by their national central banks and the ecb in order to meet their obligations to the international monetary fund. austria has already received loans from its central bank at least three times in recent years, with the blessing of the ecb, to pay off its debts to the international monetary fund. so, a direct loan to greece from the bank of greece to pay off the imf, here and now!
the commission the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european economy, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the efforts of the member states to achieve this. but there can be no support for small and mediumsized enterprises when we have a tax raid. i would therefore like to inform you that at the moment the troika in greece is demanding an increase in vat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's budget is not used to the detriment of the people of europe. you understand that we will have the opposite results: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we must have zero vat on basic foodstuffs if the greek people are to survive. we must not have an increased vat on small and mediumsized enterprises to develop the greek economy.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i am aware of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which require 40 signatures to put a question to the vote. but i also appeal to the president's erudition and whatever his democratic background may be to remind him of the famous lesson of homer's day: "what did he say?" that, that is, every citizen had the right to call a aukrin, a popular assembly. and i ask you: when there are huge issues in greece, one of which is the crisis and the other is the debts of germany, why should i wait for 40 signatures and not have the right, as a member of the european parliament, to make a proposal? in the end, the house will decide.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon today to debate and decide on the proposal from the european parliament and the council to establish a union self-certification system for the supply chain of responsible importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, as well as gold, originating in conflict and high-risk areas where conflicts between states, paramilitary, terrorist and other groups are a daily occurrence. what profit-seeking company would admit that the minerals it imports are mined in a context of respect for the human rights of workers, that they are not sourced from organizations that sell them for the purchase of weapons and that the money collected by these countries is intended for the development and welfare of their populations. all of them will certify themselves that the minerals they import comply with the standards set by the european union. you forgot to include in the proposal the bloody diamonds and oil that the islamic caliphate sells at low prices so that it can find willing customers and use the profits to arm the terrorists. we are obliged to vote against the motion because it is moving in the wrong direction.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. that's why we're talking about blood diamonds, that's why we're talking about the trade of death. the legislative proposal under discussion does not prohibit the purchase of minerals from war zones. secondly, it promotes through the certification system the purchase of minerals from war zones which it considers to be allegedly legal. we must act swiftly and decisively here and now. we must impose a compulsory system. it must concern all natural resources and not just the four minerals. isis is making huge profits selling oil. thirdly, it must concern all the companies involved. fourthly, it must concern the whole chain of the companies involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the mining sector. the european parliament has now taken a decisive step. thank you, sir.
the commission mr president, the commission's digital single market strategy is giving a boost to this highly profitable area for business groups with e-commerce and the integration of new technologies in industrial sectors at the forefront. the commission's dispute with google is an expression of intense competition between the monopolies for market dominance. the european union is giving the industry giants 21 billion euros for infrastructure, research and innovation, all plundered from the people's income. exploitative forms of flexible working and teleworking are expanding with thousands of redundancies. the big-business-controlled electronic forms of commerce will further monopolize the market, will eliminate the small ones. tax evasion will intensify, and so will the monitoring of all aspects of life by the huge databases. the only way for the people to enjoy the technological advances is to break free from the shackles of the european union and monopolies, and establish their own power and economy.
in writing. ‒ we are opposed to the codification of all the texts, because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question, which means that we must accept them as they are.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the codification of all the texts, because we are not allowed to intervene in the substance of the provisions in question, which means that we must accept them as they are.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and switzerland because it is not adequate and complete.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the codification of all the texts does not permit any intervention on the substance of the provisions in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the agreement between the eec and switzerland. as the legal services responsible have pointed out, this text does not provide for any substantive amendments.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we are opposed to this plan because we believe that, under the pretext of the so-called fight against piracy, agendas are being promoted which are aimed at censorship and the promotion of the interests of the mainstream media. piracy in all its forms can be combated by the legislation already in place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat piracy, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in other words, public goods for which the taxpayer often pays (e.g. football) are called upon to pay again to enjoy them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am opposed to this proposal because i believe that, under the pretext of the so-called fight against piracy, agendas aimed at censorship and the promotion of the interests of the mainstream media are being promoted. piracy in all its forms can be combated by the legislation already in place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat piracy, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in other words, public goods for which the taxpayer often pays (e.g. football) are called upon to pay again to enjoy them.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on or consisting of the provision of conditional access, because it creates a comprehensive framework to combat the circulation of illegal devices enabling unauthorised access to pay-tv services.
in writing. ‒ piracy can be tackled with existing legislation. the essence of the problem of subscription piracy lies in the very principle of subscription services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which gives the body its approval, as decided by the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr viktor uspaskich, as i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and in particular to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i reject the request to waive the immunity of mr lavrilleux, as i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and in particular to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke, as i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and in particular to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and in particular to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and, in particular, to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i reject the request to waive the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, as i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and in particular to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr theodoros zagorakis following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to parliamentary privileges and in particular to parliamentary immunity. everyone is equal before the law.
in writing. ‒ the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by us. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists not only as a pretext but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by me. i am voting against the requests for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon'. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon', because this request is legitimate and is provided for by the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. in addition, this consultation procedure with the european economic and social committee contributes to the deepening of the democratic functioning of the eu itself.
in writing. ‒ the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by us. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by us. i am voting against the requests for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'possible developments and adjustments of the current institutional components of the european union'. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional structures of the european union' because this request is legitimate and is provided for in the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. in addition, this consultation procedure with the european economic and social committee contributes to the deepening of the democratic functioning of the eu itself.
in writing. ‒ the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by us. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon', because this request is legitimate and is provided for by the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. in addition, this consultation procedure with the committee of the regions contributes to the deepening of the democratic functioning of the eu itself.
in writing. ‒ the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by us. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by us. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional structures of the european union' because this request is legitimate and is provided for in the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. in addition, this consultation procedure with the committee of the regions contributes to the deepening of the democratic functioning of the eu itself.
in writing. ‒ the policy of grouping eu policies into a kind of european elite cartel, where the decision-making process is not the result of democratic processes, cannot be approved by us. the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the benchmarks for cross-border transaction pricing and for quoted financial instrument pricing operate restrictively in the single market across a wide range of financial instruments and services. they contribute to the fragmentation of the internal market, have a serious impact on financial stability and the real economy, strangle national economies, act, under the cover of union law, as a lever for the pressure and constraint on national banking institutions and do not fully ensure the integrity and transparency of the market or economic reality, and cannot act as potential destabilising factors for the internal market and national financial activities. the imposition of cross-border benchmarks does not contribute to fully respecting the independence of the european central bank and the national central banks of the european system of central banks in the exercise of the powers, responsibilities and duties conferred on them by the treaties, and the independence of the national central banks inherent in the constitutional structures of the member states or third countries concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am opposed to the use of indices as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts because they contribute to the fragmentation of the internal market. they have a serious impact on financial stability and the real economy, they constrain national economies, they act, under the cover of union law, as a lever for the pressure and constraint on national banking institutions and do not fully ensure the integrity and transparency of the market or economic reality, and they can potentially act as destabilising factors for the internal market and national financial activities. the imposition of cross-border benchmarks does not contribute to fully respecting the independence of the european central bank and the national central banks of the european system of central banks in the exercise of the powers, responsibilities and duties conferred on them by the treaties, nor the independence of the national central banks which is inherent in the constitutional structures of the member states or third countries concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the benchmarks for cross-border transaction pricing and for quoted financial instrument pricing operate restrictively in the single market across a wide range of financial instruments and services. they contribute to the fragmentation of the internal market, have a serious impact on financial stability and the real economy, strangle national economies, act, under the cover of union law, as a lever for the pressure and constraint on national banking institutions and do not fully ensure the integrity and transparency of the market or economic reality, and cannot act as potential destabilising factors for the internal market and national financial activities. the imposition of cross-border benchmarks does not contribute to fully respecting the independence of the european central bank and the national central banks of the european system of central banks in the exercise of the powers, responsibilities and duties conferred on them by the treaties, nor the independence of the national central banks which is inherent in the constitutional structures of the member states or third countries concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: - we vote against. the same people who led us into the economic crisis, the same people who are bullying the third world countries to serve their interests are the same people who now claim to save us. using, of course, the same tools and methods that have proven to fail, except perhaps by offering the rich the opportunity to become even richer and to remain steadfast in their ideology that oppresses modern western societies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on financing development because the same people who led us into the economic crisis, the same people who are oppressing the third world countries to serve their interests, are the same people who are now claiming to save us, using of course the same means and methods that have been proven to fail, except perhaps the possibility of offering the rich to become even richer and permanently faithful to their ideals that oppress modern western societies.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts, following the proposal of the rapporteur.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the same people who led us into the economic crisis, the same people who are oppressing third world countries to serve their interests are the same people who now claim to save us using of course the same means and methods that have proven to fail, except perhaps by offering the rich the opportunity to become even richer and permanently faithful to their ideals that oppress modern western societies.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i too supported the motion for a resolution on financing for development. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid, providing almost 60% of official global development assistance. we must all intensify our efforts to ensure that this action is even more effective and that it is properly promoted internationally.
the commission madam president, i voted in favour of the report on safer health care in europe because it is comprehensive and adequate. at the same time, i would like to denounce the fact that in greece, seven years after the introduction of the social security number - the number of social security registers under the law of 36528 - hundreds of thousands of greek citizens are being unlawfully deprived of all health care, social benefits and pensions because, for reasons of religious conscience and protection of their constitutional freedoms, they refuse to receive social security. so because they refuse to further digitize the human face, they are punished and excluded from the health system. thus, they have to pay out of pocket for medicines, tests, and surgeries, even though they have paid their insurance obligations. it is a social racism which must be stopped here and now and for this reason i will intensify my struggle here in the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ proposes measures to combat the unreasonable use of antibiotics which, even if we do not agree on everything, are imperative to be taken, as the present situation can be extremely dangerous for public health. i am not going to go into the details of the vote.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on safer healthcare in europe because it proposes measures to combat the unwise use of antibiotics, measures which, even if i do not agree with all of them, are imperative to take, as the present situation can be extremely dangerous for public health.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ proposes measures to combat the unreasonable use of antibiotics, measures which, even if we do not agree on everything, are imperative to be taken, as the present situation can be extremely dangerous for public health.
in writing. ‒ i supported this initiative. this report, among other things, strengthens research in the field of health care by taking into account the participation of all the official specialized agencies as well as the eu institutions. it also sets out conditions to be considered for improving health services and patient safety, and fosters dialogue on important wider health issues such as antibiotic resistance.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because, although we believe that small and medium-sized enterprises are essential for economic growth, we disagree with the approach of the european parliament, the commission and the council. we believe that other ways of strengthening these enterprises will be found.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the opportunities for green growth for smes because, although i believe that small and medium-sized enterprises are crucial for economic growth, i disagree with the approach of the european parliament, the commission and the council. i believe that there are other ways of achieving the strengthening of these enterprises.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report on the opportunities for green growth for small and medium-sized enterprises because it is not adequate and comprehensive.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while we believe that smes are crucial to economic growth, we disagree with the approach of the european parliament, the commission and the council. we believe that the strengthening of these businesses will be achieved in other ways.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the opportunities for green growth for smes. smes are the backbone of the european economy and are important drivers of economic growth and job creation. the green economy can indeed offer new opportunities for smes in the eu, provided that the funding resources for this transition are found and the appropriate framework for research, development and innovation is ensured.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i think there is a need to strengthen the european defence industry by strengthening the single market. we have a difficult situation with the reduction of defence spending - i think that in this matter budgetary austerity has gone beyond all limits, that is to say it has become counterproductive - we have a bad allocation of reduced defence spending at the expense of research and at the expense of the procurement of weapons systems, we are lagging behind the united states of america and so our strategic autonomy is lost or limited. we agree on most things, but there is always the possibility of disagreement or the possibility of wrong choices that we are forced to make. we are also concerned about new threats: for example, at the nato parliamentary assembly in budapest, which i attended. the debate was centred on russia's defence programme, which is extremely ambitious. we also have new global players, such as the people's republic of china. i therefore believe that the time has come - and this is the message of the gomes report and what we have heard from the distinguished rapporteurs today - for a better allocation of european defence spending, for a basic european approach and opportunities for both the protagonists and small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission the reports under discussion, like the foreign affairs council decision, are literally declarations of war by the european union and its governments against the peoples. your aim is to strengthen the link with nato, the independent interventions of the european union by forming a regular euro-army and the strengthening of military forces to fight aggressive wars in competition for the interests of the monopolies. the immediate increase in armaments to nato levels says it all: the european union has been a great supporter of the peace process, and we are all aware of the fact that the peace process in the middle east is a very difficult one. we condemn this policy, which the greek government fully supports, and we are also calling for a new nato base in the aegean for euro-nato needs. only the people can, by their struggle, thwart these nightmarish imperialist plans, lest they pay dearly with their blood.
the commission madam president, i was disappointed to read the report on the common security and defence policy. and i'm led to believe that it was written by people with no military background, and probably no specific goal. there is a huge confusion in a multitude of issues, key concepts and objects, resulting in the loss of our strategic pursuits. i would like to mention, for example, the confusion between military and civilian missions and military assistance and direct action operations. the questions are many and substantial. does the existing treaty allow the application of what is stated in the report? can the member states implement the proposed commitments, given that not all eu and nato members are members? it is wrong to think that the economic means of diplomacy are capable of producing results by themselves. there is no appropriate infrastructure for pooling and sharing equipment, as there is a glut of materials, interoperability problems but, above all, different specific needs, priorities and aspirations. the european union must be able to take action in the field of human rights, and the european union must be able to take action in the field of human rights, and this is the first step towards the creation of a european union.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i find it scandalous that the report we are discussing today on european defence and security policy mentions, among the challenges facing the union, the terrorist threat in the horn of africa and forgets the occupation by foreign troops of part of the union's territory, namely northern cyprus. it also forgets the turkish threat of war against greece if it exercises its sovereign right under international law to extend its territorial waters to 12 miles. under such circumstances, so-called "common defense" is a sick joke. worse still, the excessive defence spending by greece and cyprus to counter the turkish threat is being converted into surpluses for the defence industries of other european countries and is being offset against the budget deficit and public debt. i call on you to stop this hypocrisy and to show real solidarity with the member states of the union threatened by turkish aggression.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the laundering of dirty money is a huge scourge on the economic life of the european union. the minimum direct costs of organised crime exceed eur 166 billion a year, according to europol estimates. this means less money for development, less money for social benefits and, ultimately, more inequality and injustice. but why has european law so far not effectively combated money laundering? the answer is simple: because there has never been the political will to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. looks like something's finally starting to move. the commission's proposals are improvements on the existing ones. the maintenance of records of the beneficial owners of legal persons, including trusts, which will be open to scrutiny by those who demonstrate a legitimate interest, is a first step towards the establishment of a transparency regime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. this is the real and major structural reform we need, not the deregulation of the labour market in favour of capital which is being promoted in every way by the political forces which are dominant in the union today.
the commission mr president, intra-group transactions have given multinationals the opportunity to evade taxation because they are not taxed where their profits are generated but in tax havens. and that means billions of euros lost to the countries of africa or the countries of southern europe. at the same time, many large multinational companies operating in greece are tax evaders, having established their tax base either in the netherlands or in luxembourg, where we had the well-known lux leaks scandal. the practice of offshore companies contributing to money laundering must also be tackled. the european union must also take action to combat the jihadists who are financed by the sale of oil to western countries. we therefore agree with the need to keep central public records of the real owners of businesses. but there must be safeguards for the use of personal data. we are, however, opposed to the exclusion of casinos and gambling from the application of the legislation.
the commission the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and to make a statement on the budget for the financial year 2000. we have thousands of complaints that in spain citizens are losing their homes because the banks are throwing them out. in greece, the memorandum led to a huge over-indebtedness of households. unemployment affects one and a half million of our fellow citizens, 40% of the population lives below the poverty line, there are households in debt owing to banks for housing and consumer loans. in greece we had a suspension of auctions procedure. the troika, however, mrs jourová, because the commission is also a member of it, wants to see an end to this protection, that is to say the suspension of first-home auctions. the commission has also not agreed to the red loan arrangement, and mr draghi has refused to accept the arrangement we are asking for. measures should therefore be taken to protect over-indebted households in greece and across europe. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the amendment of the european rules governing bankruptcies with crossborder effects under discussion today once again demonstrates that we are trying to tackle a problem in a firefighting way, without removing its roots. more and more companies are going bankrupt today because europe has been mired in economic stagnation for at least the last five years and because the countries most affected by the economic crisis have not taken the necessary measures to support societies. it is clear that the recipe for austerity is recession. the recession drains liquidity and the weakest firms end up bankrupt. it is not enough, therefore, to discuss how we will deal with bankruptcies. we must do everything possible to support the real economy with public and private investment, development and stimulation measures, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises.
one of the most serious problems facing modern societies is low fertility. the problem is particularly acute in countries whose economies are not in good shape. in greece, which suffers from the painful and onerous conditions of the memorandum, the number of deaths exceeded the number of births for the first time in 2013. so while in europe low fertility is a fact, while the countries of europe are being flooded with a multitude of illegal immigrants with the risk, in the near future, of becoming minorities in our own countries, the council does not approve the extension of maternity leave to 20 weeks because there will be economic costs. that's tragic, not just to say it but even to think it. motherhood is a very serious subject and should be treated with the proper care and seriousness. we have no right, either to the nation or to the state, to deny him the continuance of his life in the future. we must support motherhood at all costs. we have no right to deny our descendants either the light of life or, if they are born, the chance to live as free and civilized human beings.
the commission mr president, bilingualism in the european union is becoming a thing of the past. the troika in greece, with the participation of the commission, during the memorandum imposed wage cuts, the abolition of social rights and the dissolution of industrial relations. now, because the council disagrees, the commission with mr timmermans is withdrawing the legislation on the harmonization of maternity leave in the european union. so in the name of supposedly 'improving' the legislation, the commission is throwing maternity leave into the trash. but women, like young people, are the great victims of the crisis. without the protection of women who become mothers, there can be no equal opportunities for women in the workplace. at the same time, the withdrawal of the directive will intensify the low birth rate crisis in europe and especially in the memorandum countries. in greece, which was impoverished by the memorandum, births fell by 6.21% in 2013, while according to a report by doctors of the world in greece, 4 out of 10 women will give birth to one child less than they planned. at the same time, the troika and its policy consider children as a factor which increases the tax burden of the family.
the overall eu policy on general employment and the rejection of the maternity leave directive by the governments and institutions of the european union are showing their barbarity as they sacrifice even that to reduce labour costs. this is the so-called reconciliation of work and family life! the employers' terror is thus reinforced by the dismissal of women for maternity reasons before, during and after pregnancy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. working women in newlywed couples have nothing to look forward to from negotiations and promises. now, the organization of the struggle in every country for the effective protection of maternity, the health of women in the workplace, stable work with rights, the restoration of benefits, the prohibition of dismissals and maternity leave commensurate with the needs of the mother and the child, exclusively public and free health and social services for the popular family.
the debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure to wind up this debate. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 20 may. the commission has also been asked to submit a report on the implementation of the programme. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission - as a member of the troika - bears a huge responsibility for the deterioration of the lives of the disabled in greece: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of life of disabled people. there are many people who no longer have access to the health system, others who have been excluded from the labor market. unemployment among the disabled in greece is as high as ninety percent, and for the past year, institutions that house children with severe disabilities have been threatened with closure because there is no money to pay their staff. what does the actual implementation of the un convention mean, five years after its adoption? it means, among other things, that the commission, the council and any member state proposing austerity programmes cannot ignore their impact on disabled citizens. the disabled do not need wishes and sympathy but policies that replace the freedom that nature or bad luck has taken away. if we offer disabled people even one percent of the support that the european union institutions provide to banks and politicians, then we will have taken a step towards improving their quality of life. for this reason, we need a mechanism to record disabilities and to monitor how the un convention is being implemented in each country, because if we do not put binding rules of compliance by each state and by each european institution of the european union in this convention, we do not respect the disabled and we do not respect ourselves. (applause) i would like to thank you for your kind words.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the in the european union, the distance between words and deeds is chaotic. we have heard great words today from the commission about its intention to promote the protection of disabled people. in fact, the austerity policies which the commission is serving and which it is imposing with religious fanaticism, particularly in the memorandum countries, are brutally affecting the disabled. in greece, for example, disabled people have experienced drastic cuts in wages and pensions, intolerable tax increases and a dramatic deterioration in public health and welfare services. many tens of thousands of people are subject to months of delays in examination at the certification centres for disability, which causes a problem of survival for those living exclusively on welfare benefits. the list of irreversible diseases is missing incurable diseases, such as diabetes, hemophilia, seropositivity. the new disability assessment regulation cuts welfare benefits in half. the prescription cap places an unbearable burden on chronically ill patients. cancer patients are burdened with huge participation costs for drugs and tests, and their condition is worsened by grueling waiting lists for treatment. you're only interested in money, not people.
the commission mr president, human dignity must be respected and protected in accordance with article 26 of the charter of fundamental rights and, in accordance with that article, the union and its member states must respect the rights of people with disabilities and must take measures to ensure their participation in the labour market and in social life. in europe, 80 million people have some form of disability, while in greece, people with disabilities make up 10% of the population. the disabled were targeted by the troika which reduced disability pensions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the social dialogue, and that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the social dialogue. i hope that the new greek government will immediately redress these injustices imposed by the troika. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure to wind up this debate. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 20 may. the court of justice has also held that the court of first instance is entitled to order the recovery of sums paid by the member states in respect of the infringement of the competition rules.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, wednesday 20 may 2015, from 9.00 to 14.00 and from 15.00 to 23.00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. the meeting was closed at 11.40 p.m.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i'm sorry to address only you. i have asked all those who have spoken from the fringes for some time now the following question, which is also relevant to the motions for resolutions: i have not heard a word about the causes of migration, economic migration and the causes of refugees. i would ask you once again, because it seems that the left eye of the bureau is not looking at me, to pay attention a little bit here. thank you!
the commission the new european union migration strategy is made of the same materials as the previous ones: strengthening frontex, shielding the schengen treaty, maintaining the dublin treaty, and returning to the level of funds of last year during which three and a half thousand migrants drowned in the mediterranean. the european union's bounty on the traffickers of souls is the pretext for new military interventions to enrich the monopolies. the greek government is satisfied and subscribes to this policy, implementing this continuing barbarity. as for the so-called allocation of the 20,000 refugees to the other member states, this is nothing but the distribution of a sample of the huge waves of immigrants - victims of the imperialist wars of the united states, the european union and nato - to the wretched concentration camps run by the european union and its governments. there is a way out for the people: a struggle here and now in conflict with the european union and the monopolies for immediate relief of migrants, supporting them with human reception centres, abolishing the reactionary regulations of the european union.
the commission mr president, the popular golden dawn association, in its one year of presence here in parliament, has highlighted the problem of illegal immigration and has proposed workable solutions. i'm especially pleased that while some have called us graphic and racist, they now not only understand the scale of the problem -- but they're embracing and embracing solutions that we first proposed. racism, gentlemen, is when member states ignore the enormous burden that the countries of entry of the migration flows are bearing, asking for solidarity and democracy from others but not accepting to be part of the solution, entrenching yourself behind the deprecated dublin ii treaty because that is how you keep immigrants out of your country and voters happy. but fortunately, in the new action plan on migration, which is part of the golden dawn programme, mr juncker talks about the allocation of asylum seekers by quota among the countries, the repatriation of those who do not meet the conditions for asylum, the prevention and embarkation of migrants and the fight against trafficking rings. finally, i call on you, in view of turkey's progress report, to condemn it for its criminal negligence, if not refusal, to combat the smugglers of illegal immigrants.
the commission the commission is to be congratulated on the fact that the ambitious programme it is drawing up today shows that it is tackling the problem of migration in a holistic and comprehensive way. and it is very consistent with the commissioner, mr avramopoulos, in his original position months ago when he spoke of 'armouring' legal immigration as the only way to combat illegal immigration. it is very important that we look forward to and aim at a common european asylum policy, it is very important that we aim at controlling traffickers and, indeed, in an original and substantive way, not the one who is criticized but the one who has not really been read by those who criticize, that is to say, the establishment of information centres in third countries, starting with niger, something very innovative and substantial because, let us not forget that traffickers who exploit people, exploit situations and, in effect, 'bet' on human life, are those who misleadingly move people to such places. the commission's programme is certainly feasible and the european citizens expect us to implement it with ambition, always respecting the basic principles of the european union and the european mentality of mutual trust and solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s & d) and the i would like to congratulate the commission and especially those responsible for this because, for the first time, the allocation of responsibilities among all the member states on the basis of solidarity is so clearly established. it is time to look behind the veil of hypocrisy and for each member state to take a stand on the question: 'can europe violate international treaties? can he refuse asylum to people coming from death zones? can it refuse solidarity with the other member states? if the answer is no, then there is only one way forward, the one the commission is proposing, backed up by the necessary legislative initiatives. but if the answer is yes, we must prepare for a new era where laws and obligations apply by choice to those who are concerned. but let us not dwell on the issue of refugees alone. the four pillars of the migration approach respond to our calls for a holistic approach and references to legal pathways for economic migration, to supporting developing regions, to our obligations and to the needs of an ageing continent, along with the right to feel a little optimistic. if the commission attaches even greater importance to aspects such as displacement from war zones and ensures transparency, efficiency and respect for human rights, we will be on the right track.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i was interested to hear commissioner avramopoulos say that europe needs a number of migrants a year, organised and legal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but under-fertility, like migration flows, is not a natural phenomenon. the under-reproduction is caused by faulty tax, wage and social security policies which do not reward childbirth and do not protect motherhood, while the migration flows are caused by unequal terms of trade with the countries of the region and by imperialist interventions, in violation of international law, which cause chaos in these same countries. so if we really want to tackle the problem of migration, we need to change our thinking and put the balance and the well-being of human societies ahead of capital gains.
in writing. ‒ we voted on the european parliament's calendar of sittings because we must have a programme!
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ following an audit, the timetable of parliament's sessions for 2016 was found to be compatible.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted with reservations in favour of the proposed timetable of parliament's sittings for 2016 because this timetable, while adequately and fully promoting the legislative and other parliamentary activities of the european parliament, nevertheless operates exclusively on the basis of the religious holidays of the catholic church and does not take into account the religious holidays of the orthodox churches, despite the fact that a significant number of meps and staff of the ep are orthodox christians and therefore suffer discrimination in this respect when pursuing their religious beliefs, in particular in relation to the easter holiday.
in writing. ‒ following an audit, the timetable of parliament's sessions for 2016 was found to be compatible.
in writing. ‒ croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the naming of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa (protocol to take account of the accession of croatia). croatia has always followed a consistent anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the name of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, because title iv - other provisions covers a number of very important areas of cooperation linked to development, such as social cooperation on the basis of an organised dialogue, with the main themes being freedom of association, workers' rights, children's rights, equality between men and women, combating violence against women, etc.
in writing. ‒ croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the naming of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which makes croatia a party to the trade, development and cooperation agreement of the eu and its member states with the republic of south africa. the report shall adapt the necessary details to the text of the agreement in order to make accession of croatia possible.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ since the main source of terrorist financing and money laundering is mainly electronic transactions through the banking system, providing for exceptions to the application of rules and restrictions is wrong (such as providing for exceptions to individual transactions, increasing the threshold for natural or legal persons, low level of administrative fines, etc.).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is against, since the main source of terrorist financing and money laundering is mainly electronic transactions through the two-tier banking system, providing for exceptions to the application of rules and restrictions is wrong (such as providing for exceptions to individual transactions, increasing the threshold for natural or legal persons, the low level of administrative fines, etc.)
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 of the european parliament and of the council, and repealing directive 2005/60/ec of the european parliament and of the council and commission directive 2006/70/ec, because there is an improvement in the understanding by all stakeholders of the legislative framework for combating money laundering, and for the reasons i mentioned in detail in my plenary speech of 19/05/2015 in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ since the main source of terrorist financing and money laundering is mainly electronic transactions through the banking system, providing for exceptions to the application of rules and restrictions is wrong (such as providing for exceptions to individual transactions, increasing the threshold for natural or legal persons, low level of administrative fines, etc.)
in writing. ‒ since the main source of terrorist financing and money laundering is mainly electronic transactions through the dual banking system, providing for exceptions to the application of rules and restrictions is wrong (such as when the nature of the envisaged sanctions is purely 'administrative' there is a possible case of questioning the severity of the proposed administrative sanctions, no harmonised recommendations and interpretative provisions are put in place at european level in order to achieve a more uniform application of the rules, there is no ensuring of cases (such as criminal proceedings, debt or succession) where documents and information are deleted after 5 or 10 years from the end of the business relationship)
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is against, since the main source of terrorist financing and money laundering is mainly electronic transactions through the two-tier banking system, providing for exceptions to the application of rules and restrictions is wrong (such as when the nature of the sanctions envisaged is purely 'administrative'; there is a possible case of questioning the severity of the proposed administrative sanctions, no harmonised recommendations and interpretative provisions are put in place at european level in order to achieve a more uniform application of the rules, there is no guarantee of situations - such as criminal proceedings, bankruptcy or receivership - where documents and information are deleted after a period of 5 or 10 years from the expiry of the business plan)
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006, because it improves the understanding of all stakeholders of the legislative framework for combating money laundering and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 19/05/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ since the main source of terrorist financing and money laundering is mainly electronic transactions through the dual banking system, providing for exceptions to the application of rules and restrictions is wrong (such as when the nature of the envisaged sanctions is purely 'administrative' there is a possible case of questioning the severity of the proposed administrative sanctions, no harmonised recommendations and interpretative provisions are put in place at european level in order to achieve a more uniform application of the rules, there is no ensuring cases - such as criminal proceedings, bankruptcy or succession - where documents and information are deleted after 5 or 10 years from the end of the business relationship).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: - we vote against. this position gives too many opportunities to companies which could exploit the law to avoid paying their obligations. however, we recognize that there should also be some protection for small and mediumsized enterprises, unlike the text which protects very large companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against the recommendation on insolvency proceedings, as this position gives too many possibilities to companies that could take advantage of the law to avoid paying their obligations. however, i recognize that there should also be some protection for small and mediumsized enterprises, unlike the text which protects very large companies.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings because it is complete and adequate and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 19/05/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this situation gives too many opportunities to companies which could exploit the law to avoid paying their obligations. however, we recognize that there should also be some protection for small and mediumsized enterprises, unlike the text which protects very large companies.
in writing. ‒ the we are voting against this proposal because we consider it unrealistic and unworkable. it is unrealistic for the commission to demand that these metals be traced at all times and in their ever-changing forms in order to enforce 'social justice'. if the eu wants to stop supporting mines and companies that are not 'politically correct' or because they are in war zones, it can do so with economic measures as it did, wrongly, in the case of russia. billions will be spent with no predictable results, and in the end the only result that will be certain is that we will take another step towards globalization.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against this report because i consider it unrealistic and unworkable. it is unrealistic for the commission to demand that these metals be traced at all times and in their ever-changing forms in order to enforce 'social justice'. if the eu wants to stop supporting mines and companies that are not 'politically correct' or because they are in war zones, it can do so with economic measures as it did, wrongly, in the case of russia. billions will be spent with no foreseeable results and in the end the only certain result will be that we will take another step towards globalization.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a union system for self-certification of due diligence in respect of the supply chain of responsible importers of tin, tantalum and tungsten, their ores, and gold, originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas following the proposal of the rapporteur on the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is unrealistic for the commission to demand that these metals be traced at all times and in their ever-changing forms in order to enforce 'social justice'. if the eu wants to stop supporting mines and companies that are not 'politically correct' or because they are in war zones, it can do so with economic measures as it did, wrongly, in the case of russia. billions will be spent with no foreseeable results and in the end the only certain result is that we will take another step towards globalization.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i reject the amendment to the directive concerning the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting applications in general and in screen lighting, since the text condemns an action by the commission (to extend the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and screen lighting applications) as unjustified, irregular and dangerous for the environment and european citizens.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on commission delegated directive .../.../eu amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for the use of cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications, because it calls on the commission to submit a new delegated act which takes account of parliament's position and asks the commission to explain why it accepted a request submitted five months after the deadline.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the text condemns an action by the commission (to extend the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display lighting applications), an action which is unjustified, irregular and dangerous for the environment and european citizens.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution takes account of new developments, particularly in trade in the products concerned, and calls for the position of the european parliament to be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the introduction of specific measures relating to the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, since the text concerns the annulment of a commission regulation which seeks to abolish the obligation to present a certificate for ethyl alcohol, the production of which is causing major problems, particularly in the southern countries.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 20 february 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present a certificate for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 laying down certain detailed rules for the application of council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 on specific measures relating to the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, as it objects to the commission delegated regulation and asks the president of the european parliament to forward this resolution to the commission and to inform it that the delegated regulation cannot enter into force.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the text concerns the annulment of a commission regulation which seeks to abolish the obligation to produce a certificate for ethyl alcohol, the production of which is causing major problems, particularly in the southern countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal on the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. i think that the text takes account of all the aspects of the matter and sets the conditions for further initiatives.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the council should respect the decision of the european court of justice and give sufficient justification for why it is trying to withdraw the draft law on the extension of maternity leave. we are in full agreement with this proposal, particularly where it stresses the need to introduce paternity leave.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on maternity leave. the council should respect the decision of the european court of justice and give adequate justification for why it is trying to withdraw the draft law on the extension of maternity leave. i fully agree with this proposal, particularly where it stresses the need to introduce paternity leave.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on maternity leave because it is comprehensive and adequate and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 19/05/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the council should respect the decision of the european court of justice and give sufficient justification for why it is trying to withdraw the draft law on the extension of maternity leave. there is a need to introduce paternity leave.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting because, indeed, people with disabilities are a particularly vulnerable social group, whose standard of living today is far from desirable. we note, however, that this text, despite its good intentions, does not depart from the usual ideological approach and we consider it almost certain that it will contribute little to achieving the desired objective.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities because disabled people are a particularly vulnerable social group whose living standards are currently far from desirable. i would like to point out, however, that this text, despite its good intentions, does not depart from the usual ideological approach and i almost certainly believe that it will contribute little to achieving the desired objective.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the list of subjects adopted by the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in the light of the initial report of the european union because it is complete and adequate and for the reasons i have set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 19/05/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disabled are indeed a particularly vulnerable social group whose standard of living today is far from desirable. we note, however, that this text, despite its good intentions, does not depart from the usual ideological approach and we consider it almost certain that it will contribute little to achieving the expected objective.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i warmly supported this initiative on the list of subjects adopted by the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in connection with the initial report of the european union. this resolution takes into account, inter alia, the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) as well as the relevant official positions put in place by the eu. it is another important step in defending the rights of disabled people, both in terms of political freedoms and justice and in terms of employment and social affairs.
the commission i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to xylella fastidiosa. the resolution approves the adoption of specific measures and calls for: first, financial support for olive growers affected by xylella; second, an information campaign for olive growers; and third, measures to ban the importation of plants from third countries responsible for the spread of xylella in europe. xylella is a dangerous bacterium which, if immediate action is not taken, will cause enormous economic damage to olive growers in greece and the mediterranean. we therefore welcome the adoption of our resolution on xylella and call on the european commission and the member states to implement it immediately.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because there are solutions to combat the disease without environmental consequences.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the reports as a whole on the xylella fastidiosa epidemic, a bacterium that attacks olive trees. the eu must take action and the solutions must not be temporary and superficial but must help the affected areas. there are solutions to combat the disease without impacting the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there are solutions to combat the disease without environmental consequences.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution. the infection of olive trees by the bacterium xylella fastidiosa has reached epidemic proportions in the region of apulia, posing serious risks to olive production in southern europe as well as to other crops such as almonds, peaches and ornamental plants. in other forms, the bacterium is also a danger to vines and citrus trees. this initiative lays the groundwork for measures to support producers and strengthen crop protection mechanisms.
the commission madam president, as we all know, since 2000, when the discussions on turkey's accession to the european union began, little to no progress has been made. the turkish government at the time was well aware that it did not meet the copenhagen criteria for full membership of the european union. however, instead of trying to make progress, it blames the european union for the delays in the accession procedures, which it calls for to be accelerated. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. i wonder why in the european parliament, and in the other institutions of the european union, there are officials who, instead of demanding that turkey be consistent with its obligations, are pressing those who ask for the obvious to accept turkey's behaviour and to agree to the opening of other chapters, such as chapter 15 on energy, so that turkey can allegedly carry out the necessary reforms. this policy is both utopian and reinforces turkey's provocative stance. as long as turkey threatens greece with war, and as long as it denies the existence of cyprus, of which it illegally occupies a part, greek nationalists will be the gatekeepers at the back door of the european union to prevent turkey from disrupting this international organization as well.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to ask mr preda if i would ask him to open any chapter at a time when his country is patrolled by ships, threatened with casus belli in its vital area, if his country had recently received a note from the turkish foreign ministry that would bind its islands, as they have done to our country, if they were occupying half of his country, would he be talking about opening up chapters at this moment?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it should be called a "regress report" because that's what it actually is. a government like turkey's, which responds to corruption allegations against its own officials by firing the relevant judges and prosecutors and temporarily banning youtube and twitter, clearly has no respect for the rule of law or freedom of expression. a society like turkey's, where underage girls are forced by their relatives into marriage against their will, obviously does not respect gender equality. a country like turkey, which occupies a military part of the territory of another state, namely cyprus, and conducts illegal searches on its shelf and, furthermore, challenges the existing international treaties and greek sovereignty over a number of aegean islands, obviously does not respect international law. the turkish candidacy for membership of the union is a farce.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the report opens the way for new negotiating funds which are literally a reward for the continued occupation of cyprus, the increased aggression and violations by turkey, both in the cypriot eez and in greek air and sea space. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with turkey, and the turkish government has been involved in the negotiations with turkey, and the turkish government has been involved in the negotiations with turkey. the report's recommendations and wishes, which are repeated every year, as in the case of the cyprus casus belli, cannot hide the ambitions of the big imperialist interests for energy in the south-eastern mediterranean. the people, however, have other criteria and interests, and in their struggle against the european union, its monopolies and projects and its competitors, they can impose their own interests.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but now i'm having second thoughts, and that's because of the attempt to open up certain funds. i wonder why should chapter 23 and 24 be opened on justice and individual rights when we have the events in gezi park and the mass arrests of journalists and the violation of individual rights? why should chapter 15 be opened for action by a country which does not respect and does not ratify the law of the sea, the unclos and illegally issues navtex directives for the eez of neighbouring member states of the european union? why should chapter 31 on foreign policy and defence and security policy be opened when turkey still maintains the casus belli, that is, the threat of war on a member state of the european union, and that is still in force? i think that three weeks before the elections, we are making a very big gift to the current government of turkey. we should rather open up the council's benchmarks, the so-called 'benchmarks', rather than opening up new chapters. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. looking at your democratic systems, i can see that your question is at least unfortunate because you know very well that i am not appointed to this position but i am elected; and not only am i elected, but i am also co-chairman with my counterpart in turkey who is perfectly satisfied with the way i am performing my duties and i think it was wrong of you to ask such a question.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i 'm ... it is ten years since the opening of negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. ten years in which turkey has continued to occupy european territory - half of cyprus - by force of arms and systematically violates the sovereign rights of its neighbours, disregards international treaties and decisions, as in the case of the cypriot eez and the investigations, and also violates european airspace. in the last 18 months alone, there have been some 2,700 breaches. ladies and gentlemen, unless the occupying forces withdraw from cyprus, unless the additional protocol is applied and the republic of cyprus is recognised, unless the casus belli is lifted against greece, a member of the european union, and unless the violations of european air and sea borders are stopped, no enlargement can take place, no chapter can be opened, and no deepening can be decided in the customs union. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and i would like to thank the turkish government for its support for the turkish government's efforts to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict.
the commission madam president, turkey continues its provocative attitude towards cyprus and greece. a few hours ago, turkish fighter planes once again violated greek airspace between chios and samos. and while turkey continues to illegally occupy 37% of the territory of cyprus - a member state of the european union - the european union itself continues to harass ankara. the report we are discussing proposes that new chapters be opened in the pre-accession dialogue between the european union and turkey. at a time when turkey does not even recognise cyprus, when turkey maintains the casus belli against greece in the event of my country extending its territorial waters to twelve miles, when turkey is questioning the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus, the report is attempting to raise turkey's position in the political dialogue with the union. the report we are discussing is therefore unacceptable. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome.
s & d) and the we all understand that turkey is an important partner of the european union. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as the european parliament resolution states, it must carry out the necessary reforms and fully comply with the copenhagen criteria. the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the press are core european values and principles which must be respected. the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. we want a turkey which is a source of stability for the region and which respects european values and the social acquis. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is clear that the balkans is a region which has experienced very difficult times in recent decades. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish government has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the turkish government is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty of accession.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mr kukan, i would like to ask you this: given the attitude turkey has shown so far, what makes you think that this country is really interested in joining the european union, is interested in carrying out the reforms that must be carried out, which you have very rightly mentioned, and what makes you think that if this country joins the european union on the terms it wants and not on the terms it should, it will be - as you said - a good pillar for security and all the nice and pleasant things we are trying to say and accept that will happen if turkey becomes a member of the european union.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the main issue that i think we should all be concerned about is one: the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish government has not yet taken action to prevent the turkish government from using its influence to further the cause of peace in cyprus. that's where we have to start! why does turkey not implement the decisions of the united nations? the european union has also been involved in the process of ethnic cleansing of the part of northern cyprus it has conquered. the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not the only country in the world to have such a policy. who has spoken of this subject before? everyone's talking about him being the big strategic partner. i challenge all those who claim to do so to revoke it because i denounce them, deliberately, as being paid agents of turkey and i say this to sue me so that the matter reaches the courts to initiate an investigation everywhere around the issue.
the commission mr president, on 19 april, isis released a video of the beheading in libya of thirty ethiopian christians in order to terrorize the population of ethiopia, a country where two thirds of its 100 million inhabitants are christians. the jihadists' goal is to use religion and poverty in ethiopia to further their dark interests. but today, hundreds of thousands of ethiopian men and women are forced to leave their country, hit by poverty, unemployment, political instability, and arrests of dissidents. the conditions for holding democratic elections, freedom of the press and the rights of the opposition must therefore be guaranteed. we are therefore deeply concerned about the situation in this populous christian country and the european union must contribute to the stability of the region, to the economic development of ethiopia, to the functioning of the rule of law and to the protection of democratic rights. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to ask the honourable member if he knows when the present inhabitants of this area came to this place. when exactly did they arrive, in what timeframe?
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have listened very carefully to your statement and i have noticed that you have just committed an outrage: you have described as stupid the dispute between greece and skopje over the name. and i ask you: if this were happening in your country, if skopje had expansionist ambitions in your country, if in any way it was affecting your country, would you be so comfortable saying what you said?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, just two months ago, in the debate on the annual progress report on fyrom, i stressed that the policy of rewarding all the negatives that make up the country's present situation could only be a hindrance to its progress. unfortunately, the events in kumanovo have confirmed me in the most tragic way. in our neighbouring country there are serious problems with the rule of law, respect for human rights, the implementation of the international ohrid agreement, respect for the principle of good neighbourliness and the lack of democracy in the country. the european union must focus on these issues. all the other claims of external responsibility do nothing but embellish reality, perpetuate this tragic situation and, of course, deepen the crisis. the continuation of this tactic and policy, above all, is a direct undermining of the principles of the european union - let us not forget this - and prevents any possibility of progress and development of the country called fyrom.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i'll remind you, mr. colleague, what the ambassadors said about the fyrom government after their meeting with mr. gruevski: we have, they say, expressed our concerns to the prime minister that the government has made no progress on the published allegations of abuse of power. this raises serious doubts as to whether the country's government is committed to the democratic principles and values of the euro-atlantic community. the continuing failure will harm its progress in the european union. i would like to make it clear once again that greece supports the european perspective of fyrom, provided that the copenhagen criteria are respected and that progress is made in good neighbourly relations. do you not think that this farce should be stopped, that we should start negotiations for countries that are violating international law and whose governments show no interest in complying with the principles and values of the european union?
the commission the dangerous developments in fyrom and the wider region are not surprising. it is a consequence and continuation of the intervention of the united states, nato and the european union in the region. the cultivation of state bigotry and altruism, exploiting the protectorate of kosovo, ethnic and religious conflicts, the change of borders, the change of bourgeois governments by crushing popular dissatisfaction with the anti-working class policy being followed, become tools for the redistribution of wealth, the control of the transport networks in the region especially energy by business groups. the european union's progress reports serve and reflect their own interests and their competition with the russian and american monopolies. the peoples of fyrom, the balkans, lived peacefully under socialism. in capitalism they have tasted barbarity, war, poverty, exploitation. it is necessary to be vigilant to prevent the continuation of imperialist interventions, the new suffering that the accession of fyrom and other countries to the european union and nato entails.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. mr president, i would like to ask my colleague - who calls them macedonians - how would he call me, as i am a native of kastoria, a province of macedonia, greece, and was born and raised there?
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i thank you, mr president, for accepting my question. you said earlier that political considerations hold the country of fyrom hostage. i would like to know whether this remark is directed at the leadership of the country which not only does not meet the copenhagen criteria but is not doing anything about it, or do you have something else in mind?
the commission mr president, in december 2012, the european council unanimously decided that fyrom, in order to have a european perspective, should promote and respect good neighbourly relations, implement the necessary reforms and contribute to the resolution of the name issue under the auspices of the un. does anyone in this room believe that the greeks would give up two and a half thousand years of history, culture and heritage to agree to the unconditional signing of the fyrom baptismal certificate? does anyone believe that if you call them macedonians, thracians, spartans, athenians, then this state form really has a place in the european union? fyrom has open fronts abroad but mainly at home. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with the countries of eastern europe, and that it should be involved in the negotiations with the countries of eastern europe. consider whether the kumanovo of today, or the tetovo of yesterday, are events of minor importance. travel to perlepe, ohrid and the monastery and talk about macedonism. you'd be surprised at the answers. it is difficult for greece to accept the constant insults, even from representatives of eu member states, and their constant reference to the 'bad greeks' who reject the european perspective of fyrom. intolerance and intemperance have their limits. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is a blue card. the country of skopje should not express any redemptive and expansionist aspirations against other countries, such as the neighbouring countries: bulgaria, albania and greece.
the commission mr president, i think that the institution of the blue card was abused between mr preda and mrs lunacek. i did not hear any questions from mrs lunacek, but they were simply having a political argument.
the commission mr president, commissioner, the fact that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is vulnerable to incidents such as those in kumanovo shows that there is a serious lack of democracy in the country. the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia does not respect the ohrid agreement and therefore the rights of the albanian minority, which is very strong in relation to the local population. but it's not just that. the opposition has not sat in the seats of the skopje parliament since the elections; the government has not convinced itself that an independent investigation is being carried out into the phone hacking, which, by the way, is being carried out by prime minister gruevski's cousin, who is here in strasbourg accompanying the prime minister, according to the press. prime minister gruevski speaks of foreign finger in the country's political life, while russia, through sergei lavrov, sees behind the turmoil caused by the intercepts, an attempt to prevent skopje's participation in the turkish stream pipeline. all these are conspiracy scenarios, while it is clear that there is no respect for the rights, not only of albanians but also of roma, and press freedoms are being undermined. we have a responsibility to make recommendations to the applicant countries in the region, starting with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, so that the tension can be reduced. and, really, after all this, does anyone here believe that the only obstacle to the start of negotiations between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the european union is their disagreement with greece? we are not going to allow the european union to be a mere institution, but we are going to make it a political institution.
the commission mr president, there are four basic conditions for the european union to develop its cooperation with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and pave the way for future accession. firstly, the political system, which has authoritarian features, must be democratized. secondly, the dominance of organised crime and of paramilitary groups must be brought to an end. thirdly, there must be respect for the albanian minority in the country to prevent a repeat of the civil war. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the name of the region is not used in a way that would be contrary to the spirit of the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i must say that the greek governments have shown a willingness and a compromise on this issue over time and have even declared it. the problem comes from the other side: the fact that the european parliament has not yet adopted a resolution on the situation in kosovo, and that the council has not yet adopted a resolution on the situation in kosovo, is a further indication of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a resolution on the situation in kosovo, and that the council has not yet adopted a resolution on the situation in kosovo. the question therefore is on that side and not on the greek side.
the commission mr president, i did not ask for a blue card. i wanted to make a point of order: too many blue cards have been issued. we are waiting here for the 'catch-the-eye' process i was one of the first to ask to intervene with the 'catch-the-eye' process and it would be wrong if this tactic were to continue. i would therefore suggest that those who are speakers should not use a blue card because they are given the floor twice, and that those who use a blue card should not be able to participate in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. that way we can all talk. that's what i was informally suggesting. i don't want to question my colleague.
member of the commission.– mr president, our political initiative, both commission and european parliament, as all of us have already mentioned, is ongoing. it is important to safeguard a constructive approach from all sides so that this initiative achieves its mission. this is very important for me. vice-president federica mogherini and commissioner hahn will continue to be closely involved and will be happy to keep you informed of further developments. i think they have the opportunity to inform you of any further developments on this very critical issue. this has been a very controversial debate, but at the same time a very rich debate. i think now all of us have expressed our wish to have a very concrete outcome of this ongoing initiative by commissioner hahn and the members of the european parliament.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the why won 't you let me speak ? you gave the floor to the other colleague earlier, why don't you allow me to speak too? finally, respect me, i'm 93 years old and i've been here since this morning! i want to talk, to say why you have committed a violation and you do not let me express.
the commission madam president, we need to clarify the rules of procedure a little. there are a number of colleagues: myself, mr jakovčić and others, who often wish to use the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. in order to do this, there should be sufficient time after the end of the speakers. the fact that you were present at the debate, if those who are speakers and are registered and know that they will certainly speak on a subject, also exercise the right to a blue card, deprives those in 'catch-the-eye' of time. secondly, you in the bureau can see how many members have asked to speak in accordance with the 'catch-the-eye' procedure and, if there are none, use the blue card accordingly. but if there are many speakers, then the one who has asked to speak should have priority with the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. i therefore say to you that, on the subject of skopje, i had asked to speak first in this procedure [......] and i checked it ... (the president interrupts the speaker) 10 seconds please. okay, now count 10 seconds. (continued from previous part-session by mrs maria nunes) so i was the one who asked for the catch-the-eye speech. i checked with the board and i was first. i am not complaining because i was not given the floor but because of the way the procedure was carried out. we could have all talked to catch-the-eye and not abused the blue card. i should like to know, and i should like to ask the next question, ten questions with a blue card. i would ask you to organize the debate.
the commission madam president, i take this opportunity in the debate on the eastern partnership to refer to a serious issue concerning the greek populations living in georgia, in a region where traditionally, several decades ago, more than 150,000 greeks lived, most of whom, after the collapse of the soviet union, came to greece; however, 15,000 greeks still remain there. the problem is that after they left georgia, where they were georgian citizens, they left their homes, which were their own, their property. however, after they left, their own homes were illegally occupied. despite our efforts, this illegal occupation of the homes of greek citizens continues and the georgian authorities do not take any measures to restore legality and protect the property rights of greek citizens. we therefore ask that this matter be given serious consideration today by the council presidency.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is a response to those voices which in the past have supported the destabilisation of the region by orchestrating coups, imposing doctoral regimes and economic and commercial blockade. the voices that today support external attempts to destabilize democratically elected governments - such as that of venezuela - and turn a blind eye to the persecution and violations of the fundamental rights of indigenous peoples and human rights defenders, while ignoring the colonial attitudes of multinational corporations. in the face of all this, ladies and gentlemen, we must strive to ensure that our relations are based on equality, mutual respect, the sovereignty of each state, the principle of non-interference in internal affairs and respect for the principles of human rights and international law, as well as peace.
the commission madam president, the second summit of the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean (celac) could, under certain conditions, be a historic meeting. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the commitments made by the member states in the context of the implementation of the stability and growth pact, in particular in the context of the implementation of the stability and growth pact, and in the context of the implementation of the stability and growth pact. the european union and latin america, which have been besieged by armies of unemployed and millions of poor people because of austerity policies, cannot develop without the cancellation of their abject debt. in addition, the joint research and innovation initiative must aim at the social integration of the millions of unemployed young scientists in both europe and latin america. the dialogue on migration could contribute to the exchange of good practice.
the commission austerity has filled the european union with armies of unemployed. we have over five million unemployed young people. in greece, in november 2014, the unemployment rate was 50.5%. in january 2015, italy's youth unemployment rate reached 41.5%, and spain's 50.9%. if we really want to tackle youth unemployment, we must change policy, we must stop the policy of austerity, we must cancel the humiliating debt. secondly, how much money is available to support youth employment? the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. but mr draghi has 1.1 trillion euros for quantitative easing. and finally, do you know why these measures are not working? because it needs government co-financing. the member states do not have these funds. in greece, the greek state will have to provide eur 160 million to co-finance the initiative, so that the european union can provide another eur 160 million.
gue/ngl), in writing. the european youth employment initiative was established in 2013. at that time, youth unemployment in the eu-28 was around 23%. almost 2 years later, in october 2014, the average youth unemployment rate in the eurozone was also around 23%. so an initiative to which we will give 6 billion euros by 2020 has so far produced little, if any, results. youth unemployment continues to soar. in the countries of southern europe, more than 40% of young people, and in greece in particular, about 50% are unemployed. this tragic phenomenon has been aggravated during the years of crisis and austerity. this shows clearly that the measures imposed by the dominant political and social forces in the european union are not only not helping us to get out of the impasse, but are actually pushing us deeper into it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to create the conditions for growth by strengthening the real economy, which in turn will create employment opportunities.
the commission madam president, although commercial whaling has been banned internationally since 1986, japanese whalers have continued to kill 1000 whales a year, using the 'loopholes' in international whaling legislation for 'alleged' scientific purposes. a year ago, the international court of justice in the hague, in a landmark decision, banned whaling, ruling that the jarpa ii scientific program was a front for japan to continue commercial whaling. now japan is trying to get an exemption for the coming fishing season from the international whaling commission, to continue under the guise of "supposed" scientific research for whaling purposes, when in fact what it is doing is going on commercial whaling in the antarctic. and that is something that the international community should not allow. the european union must therefore take decisive action to stop japanese whaling in the antarctic.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: commissioner, you were left here. the others are in riga. i am not in a position to answer that, but i am sure that you will hear it as a representative of the commission. i do not share the celebratory, optimistic tone of the spring forecasts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. are you excited about yourself? where's the growth? where is the reduction in unemployment, especially among young people? where's the investment, public and private? where is the strengthening of cohesion, social and regional? in recent years, europe has been falling behind, and the weak growth rates of recent months are mainly due to external factors. so what is needed is a shift in economic policy away from the doctrine of unilateral austerity and cuts. and this change must finally be made in greece, which has suffered the most devastating recession and the most savage unilateral austerity. it is not only the business of the greeks, it is also your business. we must ensure better governance, less bureaucracy, less corruption, a stronger economy, but you must also rid the country of a program that you have imposed on it that has destroyed both the economy and society. i hope that those who are absent in riga and left you here will help to untie this knot, both for europe and for greece. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you for asking. i believe, first of all, that the investment fund should be strengthened with more resources because at the moment it does not have a single euro of new, fresh money. the criteria for allocating these investments must also take account of criteria which make these investments relevant. that is, the investments from the juncker fund should go to the countries that suffer most from disinvestment, from high unemployment and, therefore, there should be geographical criteria and social criteria and economic criteria.
the commission the spring economic forecasts confirm that, despite the sacrifices of the people, the billions in state support for big business show that capitalist recovery is uncertain. the danger of a new recession is obvious. the different management recipes are not about the people but about the lesser or greater harm or benefit of large corporations and city states. that is why in greece, with a syriza-anel government, a new memorandum is being prepared. the people not only do not see their losses compensated, but they are also subjected to new taxes, reductions in wages and pensions, further demolition of the social security system and reduction of social spending in order to create surpluses to pay off the debt. the peoples, whether in a period of crisis or in a period of capitalist development, can only expect an escalation of the anti-people offensive for fiscal discipline, for structural changes, for "investments". the only way out for the people is to leave the european union, to cancel the debt and to socialise the concentrated means of production.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's debt is not reduced, and that the debt is not reduced. as regards greece, i would point out that mr draghi has unlawfully excluded my country from the credit easing programme. thus, while spending 60 billion euros a month on buying government bonds and private debt, it has imposed a credit strangulation on greece, which needs credit, both to boost liquidity in the real economy and to enable the greek government to meet its debt obligations. this is because the ecb is acting as a creditor to greece and not as a supposedly independent monetary authority. the conflict of interest within the ecb will cease to exist when the european central bank leaves the troika, as the european parliament decided by adopting on 10 march my amendment calling for the ecb to be removed from the troika, as also requested by the advocate general of the court of justice of the european union, pedro cruz villalón, in case c-62/14.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the numbers are growing, ladies and gentlemen, and the people are suffering. the profits of the monopolies are rising and the workers are in hell. the reality is quite different from what the report says. unemployment is rising across europe. malnutrition is increasing, store closures continue, and there are still suicides of people who cannot make ends meet. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is resolved. i'll just give you one clue: all these years they gave us 226 billion euros and we gave back 270, that is, 43 billion more!
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the text of the commission's forecasts for 2015, which we are discussing today, is strongly ideological in nature. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'll give you a simple example: the commission is talking about growth, allegedly, in greece in 2014. the reality is, if you read the numbers, that the supposed "increase" in national income at constant prices, because there was deflation, that is, a decrease in prices, in fact, in absolute numbers, was a "decrease". so, this is a distortion of reality. the commission is trying to impose the deregulation of industrial relations - this is the fifth item on its programme - which is contrary to international treaties for the protection of human rights. for example, greece has again been condemned by both the european social charter committee and the international labour organisation because, in compliance with the commission's and the troika's suggestions, it is violating fundamental rights enshrined in international labour conventions and the european social charter.
the commission energy is a development and social good to which everyone must have access, without exclusion, if energy poverty is to be stopped. the energy union must not exacerbate economic and social disparities in the european union. at the same time, care must be taken not to turn the energy market into a space dominated by monopolistic energy giants, as is the case in the oil sector. in greece, the troika is pressing the government to sell off public property instead of a billboard, even in the energy sector, by privatizing the small public utility company. at the same time, the commission, as a member of the troika, is pushing for an increase in vat, which will lead to an increase in the price of electricity, further exacerbating energy poverty as thousands of households already lack access to electricity. the troika had also for months blocked the implementation of the interruptibility institution which would have led to a reduction in the price of energy for energy-intensive greek industries such as larco.
the commission mr president, the disappearance of itai dzamara is a matter of grave concern. the situation in zimbabwe is very tense. journalists, activists, representatives of non-governmental organizations are being arrested. we therefore condemn the arrests of journalists and activists and it is clear that zimbabwe must undergo profound democratic reforms, guarantee freedom, freedom of thought and expression, freedom of the media, equality, strengthening the rule of law and respect for human rights. the persecution in this region must therefore be stopped. we must also put an end to violence against women and, of course, there is a problem of malnutrition in this country. the european union cannot sit idly by. he needs to take action. it is not possible to provide development aid in an area where there is a massive violation of human rights. we need action here and now.
the commission mr president, the discovery of mass graves of rohingya refugees in southern thailand has shocked international opinion. this region is the crossroads of human trafficking and slave traders who take refugees to prison camps where inhuman conditions prevail. the rohingya are an ethnic minority of muslim faith, who are oppressed by the buddhist state of myanmar, where the government, under the control of the military, violates human rights. once again, lives are being lost for religious reasons. here, the victims are muslims. in other areas, the jihadists are the instigators. but as we have pointed out before, the causes of poverty and misery are not religious or ethnic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must therefore immediately suspend negotiations with thailand in order to take measures to stop human trafficking, to take measures in the region, because in asia too we may have a new lambedusa.
the commission the situation in swaziland is well known. for 41 years there has been an absolute monarchy, a state of emergency has been imposed, democracy, the rule of law and the judicial system are not functioning properly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. we have therefore a continuation of a situation of oppression of human rights. maseko, in this case, is a well-known lawyer who defends workers, is a lawyer for trade unions and has dared to criticize the justice system of his country. makhubu is a journalist and has also been critical of the judicial system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of the region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in arms and the illegal trade in arms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the there is confusion between military and civilian missions and military assistance and direct action operations. the existing treaties do not allow the report to be applied. the member states cannot implement the proposed commitments, given that not all eu and nato member states are members. it is wrong to think that economic means and diplomacy alone are capable of achieving an effect. there is no appropriate infrastructure for pooling and sharing equipment because of a glut of materials, interoperability problems and, above all, different national needs, priorities and aspirations.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against this report because i am fundamentally opposed to turkey's accession to the eu. turkey has no cultural or ethnic ties to europe. the eu accession will act as a fifth column. i would like to say that i am not in agreement with the views expressed in the progress report, namely that turkey is a strategic partner of the eu. i also strongly disagree with the unspoken invitation to compromise and reunification contained in the proposal. finally, i disagree with the designation of the admiral as 'leader of the turkish cypriots'. i think it is ridiculous that the turkish government is proposing to open the port of the occupied city of famagusta so that the turks and the settlers in the occupied countries can trade their illegal products.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (in line with the council's annual report to the european parliament on the common security and defence policy) because it promotes the image and consequent action of a militaristic european union which seeks to involve itself and its member states increasingly in eu military and non-military operations while also being financed from national budgets.
in writing. ‒ the there is confusion between military and civilian missions and military assistance and direct action operations. the existing treaties do not allow the report to be applied. the member states cannot implement the proposed commitments, given that not all eu and nato member states are members. it is wrong to think that economic means and diplomacy alone are capable of achieving an effect. there is no appropriate infrastructure for pooling and sharing equipment because of a glut of materials, interoperability problems and, above all, different national needs, priorities and aspirations.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of mr danjean's report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, which rightly points out that the eu is not in a position at the moment to deal decisively with the growing threats currently at its borders. we need systematic and long-term defence cooperation if we are to play a meaningful role on the international stage.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the financing of the csdp and the athens mechanism is a luxury for europe in the economic crisis. the member states cannot contribute to two defence organisations (eu-nato) at the same time. since the consultations on the financing of the cfsp are not producing results and there is no stable csdp, any initiative to finance military or non-military missions is a utopia.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the financing of the csdp and the athens mechanism is a luxury for europe in the economic crisis. the member states cannot contribute to two defence organisations (eu-nato) at the same time. since the consultations on the financing of the cfsp are not producing results and there is no stable csdp, any initiative to finance military or non-military missions is a utopia.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy because it promotes the image and consequent action of a militaristic european union which seeks to involve itself and its member states increasingly in eu military and non-military operations, while at the same time being financed by national budgets.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the financing of the csdp and the athens mechanism is a luxury for europe in the economic crisis. the member states cannot contribute to two defence organisations (eu-nato) at the same time. since the consultations on the financing of the cfsp are not productive and there is no stable csdp, any initiative to finance military or non-military missions is a utopia.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the fact is that there is still no correspondence between words and deeds in this area. no member state can meet today's challenges on its own. this is why the csdp needs to be strengthened: to make it a more effective policy instrument and a real guarantee for the security of eu citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the concept of national sovereignty does not include the concept of accountability for defence exports, the control of national budgets for military expenditure, the abolition of compensatory benefits, etc. in particular, the defence package, which is intended to support the competitiveness of the european defence sector, will in future lead to the creation of a monopoly by countries with defence industries.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on the security and defence capabilities in europe. the concept of national sovereignty does not include the concept of accountability for defence exports, the control of national budgets for military expenditure, the abolition of compensatory benefits, etc. in particular, the defence package, which is intended to support the competitiveness of the european defence sector, will in future lead to the creation of a monopoly by countries with defence industries.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe because it promotes the image and consequent action of a militaristic european union that seeks increasing participation of itself and its member states in eu military and non-military operations, while financed from national budgets.
in writing. ‒ the the concept of national sovereignty does not include the concept of accountability for defence exports, the control of national budgets for military expenditure, the abolition of compensatory benefits, etc. in particular, the defence package, which is intended to support the competitiveness of the european defence sector, will in future lead to the creation of a monopoly by countries with defence industries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. developments in defence markets are putting european autonomy at risk, while continued budget cuts make further european cooperation imperative.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr vice-president, and i am addressing the empty seats in the council, the agenda is full. the key question is: will the next g7 summit make any decisions or will it end up in a painless eulogy? because it seems that the global economy, and the european economy, has not learned from the great recession of 2008-2009. what happened to those promises to reform the financial system so that it serves growth and communities and not casino capitalism? where are the global tax rules that will combat the massive tax fraud and tax evasion of the big multinational corporations? even the international monetary fund notes weak investment spending, uneven economic growth, the risk of deflation and the european economy is a weak link in the world economy. the international labour office has shown in studies that complete deregulation of industrial relations has not helped either to reduce unemployment, to increase demand or to increase growth. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. this is the crucial issue and i hope that in your suitcases, mr juncker and mr tusk, when you return from bavaria, you will bring results and not just wishes.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mr nuttall, you said that greece is in a currency it should not be in and it has gotten to this point. it has never occurred to you that greece is experiencing the effects of the policies decided here in the european parliament, when the imposition of quotas effectively prohibits greece and its farmers from growing and planting what they want? so the european union is indifferent to the problem of greece?
the commission madam president, the next g7 summit is a virtual reality of so-called globalisation. the german presidency's agenda, which includes common values such as security, development policy, environmental protection and support for african countries in their reform efforts, is meaningless. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. security, with the jihadists and the isis fighters having invaded european soil! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 'protecting the environment' when a g7 member state the usa has not signed the kyoto protocol! 'support for african countries' when, for centuries, the g-7 countries, by applying a cruel and murderous colonial policy, were siphoning off wealth and resources: the decisions have already been made and the session is for the eyes of the world and the flashes of the photographers.
the commission madam president, the measures taken by the g7 to deal with the global economic crisis have made the poor poorer and the rich richer. they've filled the world with armies of unemployed. at a time of global technological development, 1.2 billion of our fellow human beings live in conditions of extreme poverty. at the same time, in 2016, the richest 1% of the world will have more wealth than the remaining 99% of the world's population. the g7 is unable to solve the problems of the world economy because it is insisting on austerity and supporting the casino economy. in a multipolar world, it is naive to believe that the smug g-7 format can provide answers to the modern economy without taking into account the rising power of brics. the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market, and that the european union is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the citizens of the union are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the we have just been in front of a solemn meeting where there were too many rhetorical speeches to present actual facts. but in my opinion, this should be a session of humanity's anxiety if it really wants to face reality. i appeal to everyone to pull yourself together! because rhetorical discourse has reached its limit and for the first time the difference between the signifier and the signified, between the apparent and the real, is presented in such a large dimension. i would like to ask you once again to come to your senses. we don't need a celebration. we need anxiety about reality, anxiety about dealing with the humanitarian crisis.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to do so. but child malnutrition in greece has reached alarming proportions. according to the research institute prevention, six out of ten greek students in 2013-2014 did not have access to adequate food. the commissioner, the humanitarian crisis in greece is intensifying. the european aid for the supply of fruit and vegetables, and even dairy products, to schools is therefore half-baked. it is not enough to deal with the malnutrition of children in greece. what needs to be done is for the troika to pull the debt noose off greece and stop the credit strangulation of the greek economy.
the commission mr president, one of the african countries with which the european union is trying to strengthen ties is eritrea. the government of this country, however, is a systematic violator of human rights. the case of eritrea is a typical example of the mentality which permeates the foreign policy philosophy of the european union. in the name of expediency, but also of vague, undefined and controversial interests, we tend to want to upgrade our relations with countries whose governments are not democratic and are provocatively violating the principles of democracy. the usual justification is that these countries are of great strategic value to the european union. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but it is also a political union. the only thing we can do with this tactic is to undermine the prestige of the european union and to become political hostages of these states. if we want to raise the profile of the european union, we must be guardians of the values and principles of the european union.
the commission mr president, eritrea is the champion in africa in terms of imprisoning journalists. it is now a big open prison that suppresses human rights. at the same time, during the arab spring, eritrea restricted internet access. the country has been in a state of emergency for 20 years and its leadership has "written" the cotonou agreement "in its old shoes". the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the european union's development aid must go to the impoverished people of eritrea and not to the regime's oligarchs, who must realise that the european union will stop development aid to eritrea unless they immediately stop violating human rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this virus, including the introduction of a new virus, the introduction of a new virus, and the introduction of a new virus. it is a fact that much of our daily life, as well as our social and economic activity, is based on the internet. the ability of some to appropriate, remove and alter data is motivated in the vast majority of cases by economic motives but, to a large extent, also by political and personal ones. this is a frightening reality. attacks on the media are, i think, the least dangerous of the possible scenarios. but we must not be consumed by accusations about which country is supporting such attacks. the truth is that all the great powers, whether in the east or the west, are using all the means at their disposal, including cyberattacks. it is hypocritical, to say the least, to claim that only russia or china is responsible and not to acknowledge the fact that the united states of america and some countries of the european union have exactly the same strategy. i don't think there is any hope that all countries will agree to stop this practice, so we must learn to live and defend ourselves through it ................... (president interrupts speaker)
the commission mr commissioner, the cyber attack on the french channel 'tv5 monde' proves that attacks against the media are reaching dangerous peaks and must be fought. because this attack is an attack on the freedom of the press; the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. it was a jihadist attack, this time in cyberspace. the european union's cybersecurity strategy must therefore be made more substantial and effective. this requires close cooperation between the member states and the commission. but we must not fall into the trap of jihadists who aim to restrict the free flow of ideas. for this reason, the internet must be and remain open and free. and so, in the name of cybersecurity, we should not restrict cyber freedom and the fundamental rights of citizens and users.
the commission there is no doubt that cyber attacks pose a very serious threat to both the independence and freedom of the press. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. but this modern threat, whose success is based on the achievements of technology, does not only threaten the press, it threatens other structures much more valuable. and i'm talking about the state itself. try to imagine what problems would have been created if the attack on tv5 had been equally successful against the security, defence and operational structures of the state and private enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must be careful, however, because our approach to guaranteeing cybersecurity must not be at the expense of individual freedoms, human rights and independence.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the recent terrorist cyber attack on european media, such as the french channel "tv5 monde", signals a new kind of threat to europe and its democratic values. the eu and its member states face significant security challenges. the union must therefore be strengthened, legally and institutionally, in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and cyberattacks. the new european agenda on security, which sets out the union's strategy to address threats in this area, should place particular emphasis on better preventing and combating such crimes aimed at manipulating and silencing western media. success depends not only on effective cooperation between eu institutions and bodies and member states with national authorities, but particular emphasis must be placed on the education and specialised training of law enforcement authorities in europe to make it more effective in the early detection of online criminals, who admittedly use highly advanced encryption technology. we believe in the commission's new initiatives in this area and in the coordination of all political forces to guarantee the security of european citizens.
the commission mr president, the practice of forcing girls into marriage, particularly in asia and africa, has caused concern in the international community and in the european union itself. this practice violates the human rights of girls and women and leads to increased health risks. the consequences of early and forced marriage are enormous for women and for societies themselves. by perpetuating the cycle of poverty, forced marriage reduces a society's chances of creating sustainable development and social cohesion. of the european union's member states, 23 have signed and only 11 have ratified the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, a convention that considers forced marriage a violation of human rights. a report published in 2014 showed that forced marriage is a problem in some member states, such as germany. parliament has taken a position on combating violence against women. it will now be necessary for the commission to initiate the accession of the european union to the council of europe 's istanbul convention .
mr president, i wanted to mention a phenomenon i had observed in the czech republic, which concerned the consideration of the commission's report assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of the framework decision on combating terrorism. within the public debate in the czech republic, as well as the debate among czech politicians, there has been more or less no consensus on whether czech law contains or does not contain sufficient punishment for the phenomenon of so-called foreign fighters, i.e. whether czech law allows punishing in principle the mere preparation of a crime. the debate was divided between criminal law experts and politicians. i, listening to the debate, realized how serious the matter is. it's about punishing those who leave europe and then try to prepare for battle in the service of the islamic state. i think the commission should take a uniform approach to this matter and draw up a directive. and i was kind of going to challenge her to do that.
the commission i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the first is the war reparations condemned by the paris peace conference in 1946, totalling eur 108 billion, plus interest. secondly, there is the compulsory occupation loan, amounting to eur 54 billion, plus interest. thirdly, it concerns the compensation of the relatives of the thousands of victims who were executed by the nazi occupation troops. fourthly, it is about the return of the archaeological treasures looted by the nazis. 70 years after the end of world war ii, germany refuses to sign a peace treaty with greece. we therefore call on germany to pay off its debt to greece, totalling eur 162 billion plus interest, and to sign a peace treaty with the hellenic republic, since it is inconceivable that two countries of the european union have not concluded a peace treaty with each other since the end of the second world war.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the treaty on the functioning of the european union begins with reference to the ever closer union of the peoples of europe. however, in the last years of the crisis, the dominant political forces, under pressure from the capital markets, have abandoned this vision and are trying to cultivate rivalries between peoples, with the ultimate aim of devaluing labour in favour of capital at european level. their design is currently being implemented with particular intensity at the expense of the societies of the over-indebted states, where over-indebtedness is used as a lever of pressure to impose the so-called structural reforms that are summed up in the deregulation of the economy. the individual worker is thus left without protection against the power of capital, and the mechanisms for protecting the socially weaker are generally undermined. the same will then be extended to the other countries on the pretext of competitiveness. the peoples must unite in their resistance to the reactionary onslaught of the post-war authoritarianism of the capital markets.
the commission mr president, i voted in favour of the decision on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk to educational establishments, as i believe that at a time when merkel's austerity has filled the european union with armies of unemployed people, the children of impoverished european citizens should have at least this minimal possibility of being able to participate in free distribution schemes for fruit, vegetables and milk products. the funds allocated to these programmes are, however, paltry, considering that the european union has allocated 1.6 trillion euros to rescue banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must abandon its policy of austerity if it is to tackle malnutrition in greece and southern europe. in greece in particular, the debt must be cancelled, the memoranda abolished and the troika expelled.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the regulation provocatively states that it aims to cultivate "healthy eating habits" in children, at a time when the wildly anti-people policies of the eu and governments are leading thousands of children from working-class families to go to school fasting and fainting from hunger. with 20 pieces of fruit and 4-5 euros per year for each child to distribute milk, the eu is actually subsidizing the large dairy and food packaging, processing, importing, marketing and distribution companies and promoting the products of the multinational companies, which are the only ones to benefit from such false-document schemes. the european parliament's report actually puts companies in schools, not to promote healthy eating, but to expand their clientele and advertise their products, and with a subsidy! the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a publicity campaign to show that the eu is interested in children and not in the profits of multinationals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union, and to extend it to cover the whole of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the growth in the consumption of dairy and fruit and vegetable products in our educational establishments is consistent. to achieve this, the bureaucracy involved in the promotion of these products should be reduced to a minimum.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, i am very sorry to have to refer to you personally again. we have just heard a fine speech that corresponded to the reality of the dictatorships in spain and portugal. but today, a free greece, a country which expresses the will of the greek people to chart its own course, is facing a strong reaction from the three institutions, the troika, and from your own side, and i wonder with what right, because as a person you have the right to intervene and say anything, but as president of the european parliament, i think you do not have the right to speak for the european parliament and intervene in greece and try to strangle it. hands off all the lenders from greece. those who think they can subjugate the greek people are deluded.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the gue/ngl group also believes that it would be better to have a short postponement for the july part-session so that we can discuss this matter, which is really of great importance, with more maturity and readiness. we mustn't rush into this.
the commission mr president, first of all i should like to point out that this matter was referred to the committee responsible, which rejected it and even agreed to this debate because the majority of the committee responsible said that there should be no resolution. secondly, and more importantly, we had the opportunity fifteen days ago when we were discussing the partnership, which is very important, to raise these issues on azerbaijan, so that the european union leadership and parliament could raise these issues in time. but these were not. thirdly, and this is also important, in 20 days' time there will be a debate on this matter in the council of europe, where the committee responsible for the matter is located. i believe that whatever resolution we decide to adopt today creates a precedent and prescribes the decisions of the competent body, which is the council of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so anyone can have a say in the debate, but having a resolution does not give us all the time to prepare and discuss and the political groups also have their seats to come organised to the debate.
the commission mr president, mr commissioner, while mr draghi has €1.1 trillion to buy private and public debt, the €441 million in the reserve for dealing with crises in the agricultural sector is 'trivial' for the farmers of greece and the rest of southern europe, who are affected by the russian embargo and have lost hundreds of millions of euros so far. the greek farmers who were impoverished by the memorandum have also been tested this year by the disasters in their production, because of the events that have struck my country. at the same time, the tax raid on greek farmers this year, at the behest of the troika, has been extended illegally to the community aid they receive. so in the last five years the income of greek farmers has fallen by one and a half billion euros and the taxes they paid have increased by 150%. for these reasons, the adjustment rate, that is to say the reduction rate fixed by the regulation in question, should not be applied to the aid granted to greek farmers, since, if greek farmers are not excluded, this would lead to a further unjustified reduction in their incomes.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the russian embargo was preceded by the european union embargo. who rose up of species or hands of wrongdoers. the european union has been the first to act, and it is certainly useful to take that into account. there must be a fund to deal with the phenomena, but specifically for greece i want to note the fact that, apart from the economic crisis, which was not caused by greek farmers or the greek people, the policy of the institutions towards our agricultural economy is terrible. they do not want the rural economy to develop in greece. we are not interested in an industrial country, we are not interested in the exploitation of soft and renewable energy sources, we are interested in a resort, a large hotel, we are interested in greece!
the commission the fact that we see that only women have registered and asked for speaking time and that only men are intervening with a blue card shows that the objective has not been achieved. the report is indeed of strategic importance, and i fully agree with our commissioner who said that equality is the objective, the purpose and the driving force of development, but we should avoid reports which are permeated with views which invalidate or misrepresent the objective. the objective has not been achieved. but how can we, the european parliament, the european council, the commission and the european union, as an institutional actor, make a decisive contribution to this, so that after years we do not have to talk about this subject? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i would like to ask him to give us a clear answer to this question. the principle of subsidiarity, which i have heard mentioned, is not to blame for this, ladies and gentlemen, because national laws are independent. we have an institutional role and we must, we must, we have a duty to intervene where we give european directives. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, we are discussing today the adoption of a new strategy for equality between men and women, at a time when the utter failure of the previous one for the years 2010 to 2015 is reflected in the figures. 60% of the unemployed population are women, but those who are employed are paid on average 16% less than men for work of equal value. these figures are magnified in crisis countries such as greece, where the recession, as a result of the memorandum policies, has sent one in three women into unemployment. the grandiose words of the report are not going to help the unemployed mother, the woman who does not get pregnant for fear of losing her job, or the woman who becomes a victim of violence. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states.
the commission madam president, in the current economic climate, the effective implementation of gender equality policy is a top political priority. in the countries of the european south, merkel's austerity has led women into poverty and social exclusion. in greece, according to official figures, 60% of the unemployed registered with the oaed are women, and the figure is 580,000. at the same time, however, only 15.7% of these unemployed women receive unemployment benefit. also, while the unemployment rate for women in 2009, before the memorandum, was 14.4%, in 2014 the rate has risen to 29.3%. the gender pay gap has also widened considerably. the dismantling of the public sector and the imposition of flexible forms of employment have brought many women to economic despair. inequalities between men and women have negative consequences for societies themselves and because of these inequalities, societies are no longer able to create sustainable development and social cohesion.
the commission mr president, there has been an uncontrolled increase in the number of irregular migrants entering greece from the northern greek-turkish sea border, now up to 500% compared with last year, especially in the islands of the south-eastern aegean. i have repeatedly asked for special funds to be approved for greece to deal with this phenomenon, which has been pointed out by the united nations high commissioner for refugees, noting that these islands in particular do not have the appropriate infrastructure to provide adequate care for these people. the local authorities on the greek islands are sounding the alarm to give greece the necessary financial aid and to implement swiftly the new european commission programme to resettle 16 000 migrants in other countries of the european union. i would urge the commission to speed up the implementation of emergency measures, in view of the tourist season, to provide relief to the affected areas.
the commission mr president, competitiveness in the european union must be based not on wage cuts but on innovation and the knowledge economy. intellectual property rights-intensive industries generate 39% of total economic activity in the european union, worth €4.7 trillion per year, and employ 26% of the total workforce, or 56 million workers. a legal framework for the protection of intellectual property rights is therefore needed, not only in the european union but also in third countries. at the same time, the abuse of rights by holders of intellectual property rights and the creation of monopoly situations of exploitation and profiteering must be prevented. in particular, with regard to the pharmaceutical companies, which, by abusing their dominant position, have turned the marketing of medicines into a shameful business of accumulating superprofits at the expense of third countries, the prices of medicines must be affordable for the impoverished peoples of europe and third countries, because health is a public good and not a commodity.
the commission mr president, the protection of intellectual property rights is a driving force for employment and growth in the european union. at the same time, it is vital for the smooth functioning of the internal market. in this context, the protection of intellectual property rights should include the adoption of a money-line monitoring approach to target intellectual property rights infringers who traffic in counterfeit pirated goods via the internet. this has resulted in lost revenue for smes and national economies. on the other hand, there must be a fair balance of interests between the holders of such rights and the end users. finally, in a phase of economic crisis where the financing of culture is being affected by cuts imposed by the merseyside budgetary adjustment, there should be greater support for culture from the european union.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. a policy which, in the service of the fierce conflict of interests for dominance over the energy map of the region, is completely indifferent to the disastrous effects on the peoples of the region. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. the false dilemma of bad russia not meeting the conditions of a european strategic partner is a farce. it is enough to look at the list of european strategic partners to date to see how much this policy respects international law, democracy, state sovereignty and human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that this is the united europe we want?
the commission mr president, the tensions in relations between russia and the european union will continue. that's because the outlook for the russian economy has deteriorated, especially since the fall in international oil and gas prices. president putin is choosing confrontation with the west as a means of rallying russian public opinion around a regime that cannot effectively deal with the citizens' everyday problems. the european response to this challenge must be economic, since that is where we have the comparative advantage. the first strategic economic intervention should be in favour of ukraine, which is also under the greatest pressure from russia. the question of ukraine's debt and the financing of its development must be addressed immediately, because by maintaining economic uncertainty we are favouring russia's strategy.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for the calendar year 2015, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 june 2015 and because the creation by the eu of a reserve for crises in the agricultural sector is ultimately financed by farmers themselves by reducing the community aid paid to them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ direct payments to farmers in crisis, affecting agricultural production or distribution, must not be delayed and must be carried out at a later date. in addition, for calendar year 2015, the fiscal adjustment in most rural countries, the economic crisis and the apparent extension of the sanctions in russia are not consistent with a decrease in the adjustment rate for direct payments.
the commission i have not voted in favour of the report, madam president, because i consider that a number of its provisions are national responsibilities. however, this report can be a good starting point to encourage steps to bridge the gender gap in the real economy. we all know, and we have read, that only 5% of the chairmen of the boards of directors in the european union are women, that only 18.6% of the members of the supervisory boards are women, that only one third of the selfemployed, those who set up businesses, are women, and that 60% of the new graduates are women. what 's wrong with women ? don't they work a lot? don't they have any new ideas? they 're not consistent ? they do all of this, i think, and their presence in the real economy cannot be ensured by suffocating quotas. we must create a genuine framework of encouragement that will allow women's power, women's ingenuity, women's sensitivity to be present in economic development.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against because many of its points focus on equal treatment of roma, other immigrants, homosexuals and abortion. the position of the movement is opposite to all of this.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 june 2015, and because that report recognises and takes into account that equality between women and men is a fundamental value of the eu, enshrined in the relevant eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report on "equality between women and men after 2015" because, despite some wishful thinking on combating violence against women, it promotes an eu policy that intensifies the exploitation of women and places new burdens on ordinary families. the increase in women's employment is linked to 'flexible forms of work' with low wages, in the name of 'work-life balance'. the solution to the acute problems is the "equal sharing of care and care duties" between the two sexes, i.e. the responsibility for the care of dependent members is transferred from the state, which has the obligation to provide public services free of charge to the couple. the call for the implementation of the 'barcelona objectives' which provide for the operation of paid childcare services, often with unskilled staff, and for the abolition of the right to free integrated pre-school education for children, is also revealing. finally, the report calls for 'reducing the differences in pensions between men and women' by the well-known equalization of rights downwards. the only way is for women, young couples, the people as a whole to use their experience to recover losses and satisfy their modern needs in conflict with the eu and the monopolies.
in writing. ‒ in many places the report focuses on cases of equal treatment of roma, other migrants, homosexuals and abortion.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report on "equality between women and men after 2015" because, despite some wishful thinking on combating violence against women, it promotes an eu policy that intensifies the exploitation of women and places new burdens on ordinary families. the increase in women's employment is linked to 'flexible forms of work' with starvation wages in the name of 'work-life balance'. the solution to the acute problems is the "equal sharing of care and care duties" between the two sexes, i.e. the responsibility for the care of dependent members is transferred from the state, which has the obligation to provide public services free of charge, to the couple. the call for the implementation of the 'barcelona objectives' which provide for the operation of paid childcare services, often with unskilled staff, and for the abolition of the right to free integrated pre-school education for children, is also revealing. finally, the report calls for 'reducing the differences in pensions between men and women' by the well-known equalization of rights downwards. the only way is for women, young couples, the people as a whole to use their experience to recover losses and satisfy their modern needs in conflict with the eu and the monopolies.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a 'strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries' for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 june 2015, and because a legal framework for the protection of intellectual property rights is needed to prevent both the abuse of rights by intellectual property rights holders and the creation of monopolies of exploitation and abuse. in particular, in relation to the pharmaceutical companies, which, by abusing their dominant position, have turned the marketing of medicines into a shameful business of accumulating superprofits at the expense of third countries, the prices of medicines must be affordable for the impoverished peoples of europe and third countries, because health is a public good and not a commodity.
in writing. the reports on copyright enforcement both within the eu and in its relations with third countries concern the safeguarding of the interests of business groups, not only in the so-called entertainment industry but also in the pharmaceutical, industrial, information technology and other sectors. they demand strong protection of the "sacred" right of capitalists to own cultural content, patents for medicines, industrial products, etc., at the expense of the people who have to pay dearly for their medicines, for the enjoyment of artistic creations, information and other goods critical to their lives, which should be public and free without corporate action. the authors of works, patents, etc. are not only not protected, but their exploitation is intensified by strengthening the system of so-called 'intellectual property rights' in the companies that acquire these rights and exploit them, although they do not own them. the abolition of the exploitative system is a necessary condition for the development of the creative, scientific and technological potential that exists today to the highest level, so that workers can freely enjoy the achievements of human creation in all areas of their lives.
in writing. ‒ the report is moving in the right direction. the protection of intellectual property rights is vital for business, trade and the economy in general. they protect trade from international organized crime and the health of consumers. but there is a need for a more rigorous approach than mere observations, with regard to the transatlantic trade and investment partnerships (ttip) and the import/export of generic and biosimilar medicines.
in writing. the reports on copyright enforcement both within the eu and in its relations with third countries concern the safeguarding of the interests of business groups, not only in the so-called entertainment industry but also those active in the pharmaceutical sector, in industrial sectors, in information technology, etc. they demand strong protection of the "sacred" right of capitalists to own cultural content, patents for medicines, industrial products, etc., at the expense of the people who have to pay dearly for their medicines, the enjoyment of artistic creations, information and other vital goods, which should be public and free without corporate action. the authors of works, patents, etc. are not only not protected, but their exploitation is intensified by strengthening the system of so-called 'intellectual property rights' in the companies that acquire these rights and exploit them, although they do not own them. the abolition of the exploitative system is a necessary condition for the development of the creative, scientific and technological potential that exists today to the highest level, for the free enjoyment by workers of the achievements of human creation in all areas of their lives.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the as the socialist rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on culture on the action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr), i should like to express my satisfaction with the final result. effective enforcement of the iprs guarantees the creativity, innovation and competitiveness of the creative industries, as well as the cultural diversity that is the eu's identity. i would also like to stress that it should be a top priority that any attempt to modernise and harmonise the legal framework must be carried out within the framework of the basic principles of intellectual property. exceptions and limitations should be targeted and limited and should not interfere with the normal exploitation and dissemination of cultural and creative content. in parallel, the role and responsibility of intermediaries needs to be clarified and their dominant business model that returns a negligible share of their profits to creators needs to be examined. we live in a time of crisis where funding for culture is dwindling. we must therefore ensure that artists continue to enjoy the intellectual rights to their work and that they are fairly remunerated, while users enjoy the widest possible variety of cultural goods.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the pursuit of a renewed consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market: an eu action plan, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 june 2015, and because that report includes the adoption of a money-line monitoring approach to crack down on intellectual property rights infringers who traffic in counterfeit pirated goods via the internet.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) is not just a driver of employment and growth in the union but is vital for the smooth functioning of the internal market, especially in view of factors such as the share of gdp in the eu and the member states. emphasis is placed on the regulation of ipr enforcement, including the adoption of a 'monetary line monitoring' approach, which will aim to ensure that the most significant ipr infringers, in particular on a commercial scale, are identified and suffer financial losses
the commission madam president, the issue of climate change is particularly important because it is a threat to human societies, it affects the poorest of our fellow men in particular, it creates new migratory flows, it depletes water resources and it destroys the flora of the planet. the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and iceland's participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol are important because they send a strong political message to the international community on the european response to climate change. but other countries of the world, which have a historical and important responsibility because they have high emissions, should also be involved. moreover, the countries participating in the second commitment period 2013 - 2010 are european countries, while significant polluting countries are absent. we look forward to important decisions at the un conference in paris in december, as the decisions taken by the g7 yesterday on the climate issue are disappointing.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. we consider energy to be a basic human commodity. the european union's energy security strategy must therefore have as its main objective the effective elimination of energy poverty. but apart from any legal disagreements, i am impressed by the way we work as a parliament. at the same time, while it is rightly pointed out in the resolution that energy should not be used as a political instrument of pressure in any framework of international cooperation, in other parts of it, and also in the opinion of the afet committee, it is proposed that energy should be used as a means of exerting political pressure and even with a blackmailing content. you are asking for a single energy expression by the member states on the basis of a so-called solidarity and you are targeting their right, or that of other acceding states, to withhold from agreements because they affect the policy shaping of certain european interests. such policies allow mr schulz to criticize democratically elected governments for their energy choices.
the commission madam president, the energy union and security of the european union, by promoting its independence from russia, boosting investment in renewable sources, further liberalising the energy market and privatising its infrastructure, serves the interests of the monopolies. it is developing in an environment of business conflicts within the union, geopolitical rivalries with russia and china, with the united states becoming increasingly involved, with imperialist interventions and wars, with the european union, the united states and nato taking the lead, with the victims being the peoples, waves of migrants and refugees. the communist party of greece revealed that behind the greek government's positions on "geostrategic upgrading" in the energy "game", it is promoting greater involvement of the country in imperialist competitions on behalf of big interests. as long as wealth is in the hands of a few and energy is a commodity, people will pay more for fuel and electricity, thousands of households will be deprived of heating. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
the commission madam president, the european union's energy security strategy sounds ambitious, but in these matters everything is judged by the result. i therefore believe that, beyond the general framework, which i support, there must be a step-by-step approach to the issues. as far as greece is concerned, the european commission must help to limit unacceptable overpricing of 20-30% on russian oil and gas. i estimate that the greek economy could save over 500 million euros by seriously negotiating their price. the european commission could also give the green light to the privatisation of desfa, a state-owned gas company, through an investment by socar, an azerbaijani company. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the draft budget for the financial year. in my view, the european commission should promote serious energy investments in greece, such as the underwater connection of crete to the energy system of mainland greece, exploiting the opportunities offered by the juncker plan and the partial privatisation of the ppp.
madam president, in general i am aligned to the principles of this report and also the proposed actions which should be taken into account in the planning of the european energy security strategy. but, in this respect, it is necessary to stress the role of energy efficiency as a new energy source and of further renewables, since they contribute both to the increase of eu energy security and to the transition to a low carbon economy. since in the eu we are always concerned with the diversification of energy sources, let me just underline the importance of the trans-adriatic pipeline, which is a project that is almost under construction in the southern gas corridor and has already been selected to transport diversified gas supplies to europe. in addition, the discovery of significant gas reserves in the eastern mediterranean offers us potential for a future supply from indigenous energy sources. so we should pay special attention to these new discoveries. i believe that we cannot build energy security without investing in our own resources. we should also work on the stability of the area and the continuity of research.
the commission madam president, european energy security must ultimately be aimed at ensuring energy independence for the member states of the union. this means unity in the diversity of the various member states. it means coordination of action but also flexibility. it means a common strategy, but also the application of the principle of subsidiarity. it means establishing a common framework for action by the european union with common principles, but within which the member states of the union should retain their sovereign rights and exploit their resources. in relation to greece, this means that my country will have to move in two directions. firstly, it must be transformed into a modern energy hub, making use in particular of the tap pipeline, but also of the greek stream and liquefied gas. secondly, to exploit without any commitments, in the public interest, the natural gas and oil in the greek eez. for this reason greece must create a public body for the exploration and exploitation of the country's resources, without the patronage of the troika and the lenders.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union, with the active participation of the greek government, is building up a naval force to intervene in third countries under the pretext of tackling smugglers. the so-called smart border of the european union is nothing more than the opening and closing of the migrant flow funnel, as defined by the interests of business groups for a plentiful workforce. the only data are the ironclad repression systems, the dossier, the fingerprints, the concentration camps, frontex, schengen, which cause thousands of refugees and migrants to freeze to death in the mediterranean every year. the commission's proposals for resettlement are a travesty, since apart from being a drop in the bucket, dublin and other european union regulations are in force and that is the point. the european union must take action now to deal with the problems of refugees, to provide them with quick and reliable asylum or subsidiary protection, and to create state and decent reception facilities.
the commission mr president, commissioner, mr avramopoulos, i welcome the commission's firm stance in upholding the principle of solidarity in the field of refugee flows. we have raised this issue many times in this chamber, and the criteria for the distribution of refugee flows, i.e. gdp, area, population of the member states, but also the level of unemployment, are entirely consistent with the views we have expressed on this issue. we therefore consider it important that the 16 000 syrian refugees hosted in greece will be redistributed on the basis of the above distribution key within the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. greece cannot tolerate any more illegal immigrants and this must be understood by the member states of the union. we must move towards the abolition of dublin iii and replace the dublin system with a genuine system of european solidarity and co-responsibility. in this context, the smart border system is an important tool, but it should respect personal data and fundamental rights, as you have mentioned.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, olaf was set up to fight corruption and fraud against the european union. however, the report of the competent supervisory body shows that it is acting in an opaque manner and there is no guarantee of the effectiveness and legality of its actions. it is clear that the european commission, which has ultimate responsibility for the union's services, is unable to secure the most elementary and necessary reform, namely the fight against corruption in its own house. in an oxymoronic fashion, the european commission, acting as a member of the troika, is demanding that supposed reforms be imposed on the states that are subject to a memorandum regime. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. we must put an end to this hypocrisy and rebuild the union on the basis of genuine respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, which includes legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the relevant commitments, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 june 2015, and also because that recommendation sets an ambitious climate change reduction target of reducing average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 80% between 2013 and 2020 for both the european union and its member states and iceland.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, which includes legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement as iceland is part of annex i of the kyoto protocol, which has succeeded in meeting its individual targets for the first commitment period. it expressed its intention to jointly honour its commitments in a second commitment period with the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eu climate and energy package determines the total greenhouse emissions allowed for the period 2013-2020. the eu member states and iceland undertook the commitment to limit their average annual greenhouse emissions (2013 – 2020) to 80% of their base year emissions (second commitment period under kyoto protocol). i have voted in favour in order to facilitate the conclusion of the separate agreement between the european union and its member states with iceland, so that iceland participates in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the kyoto protocol.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments entered into by the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 june 2015, and because it sets an ambitious climate change mitigation target of reducing the average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by 80% for both iceland and the european union and for the member states.
in writing. ‒ iceland is part of annex i of the kyoto protocol, which has succeeded in meeting its individual targets for the first commitment period. it expressed its intention to jointly honour its commitments in a second commitment period with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because croatia has always followed a consistent anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the name of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 drawn up by the council on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and to the protocol of 16 october 2001, as this report simplifies the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu (former article k.3 teu).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece, at local, regional and international level, such as the naming of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the name of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 drawn up under article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union, as it lays down simplified arrangements for the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu (former article k.3 teu).
in writing. ‒ croatia has always followed a firm anti-greek policy on all issues of interest to greece at local, regional and international level, such as the naming of skopje, economic policy at community level, etc.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the geopolitical positions of the movement are with those of russia. europe serves the interests of the us-controlled system, especially in matters concerning eu-russia cooperation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the state of eu-russia relations because it promotes the revival of a cold war climate in europe which does not contribute to consolidating peace.
in writing. the report calls for the escalation by all means, military, political, economic-of the eu's aggression against capitalist russia, focusing on their conflict after the eu-us-nato imperialist intervention in ukraine, but also the overall control of energy resources and their transport routes in the wider eurasia. the european council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war. despite the calls by the representatives of capital for a unified eu stance against russian capitalism, the report cannot hide the serious contradictions within the eu, between its member states, due to the different interests of the business groups they represent, depending on the relations they maintain with russian monopolies, but also the orientations of their international alliances. the eu-russia conflict is exclusively about the interests of the monopolies on both sides, and the peoples are paying dearly for it with their blood and the deterioration of their lives by economic measures and countermeasures. the solution lies in the hands of the people, in the people's struggle to change the balance of power, to fight against monopolies, to break free from imperialist associations and to establish mutually beneficial relations between states and peoples.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the geopolitical positions of the movement are with those of russia. europe serves the interests of the us-controlled system, especially in matters concerning eu-russia cooperation.
in writing. the report calls for the escalation by all means, military, political, economic, of the eu's aggression against capitalist russia, focusing on their conflict after the eu-us-nato imperialist intervention in ukraine, but also the overall control of energy resources and their transport routes in the wider eurasia. the european council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war. despite the calls by the representatives of capital for a unified eu stance against russian capitalism, the report cannot hide the serious contradictions within the eu, between its member states, due to the different interests of the business groups they represent, depending on the relations they maintain with russian monopolies, but also the orientations of their international alliances. the eu-russia conflict is exclusively about the interests of the monopolies on both sides, which the peoples are paying dearly with their blood and the deterioration of their lives by economic measures and countermeasures. the solution lies in the hands of the people, in the people's struggle to change the balance of power, to fight against monopolies, to break free from imperialist associations and to establish mutually beneficial relations between states and peoples.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. it is these same ideologies that are driving the government in my country, greece, to increase its dependence on a single supplier, russia, undermining energy security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what will it really mean for european energy security, for the supply of gas from multiple suppliers, if the tap pipeline is not put into operation and the game continues with turkish stream, for which there are no funds, by the way? what does the greek government's refusal to partially privatize the power grid, to increase private participation in renewable energy sources, or to pay off debts to private individuals, mean for the single energy market and, ultimately, for energy security? the resolution is essential to advance energy security. it is, however, a prerequisite for governments of member states, such as greece, which are not working towards the integration of the energy market to comply with this direction.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the eu certainly needs to focus on new energy sources, such as wind and solar, giving more incentives to achieve this goal, while at the same time stopping the promotion of environmentally harmful sources such as hydraulic fracturing and not serving third party interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but russia is also an important ally, which some europeans do not count on, and which is both strategically and geopolitically in europe.
in writing. ‒ energy is a public social good and should therefore not be regarded within a profit—making framework. i voted against the saudargas report as there are many points that undermine the commitment towards a sustainable energy model. the fact that the report makes reference to the use of nuclear energy is unacceptable, and such a reference should not be made anywhere in the eu. additionally, the aim of an energy strategy should be to cover the needs of the people through necessary infrastructures and energy interconnections. it is to this extent that cooperation with russia and other third countries should be promoted, while the report is completely against this line of cooperation; it seems it is only strong capital forces that could benefit from a single energy policy, and not member states and their citizens.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy because i disagree with the content of that report for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9/6/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu certainly needs to focus on new energy sources such as wind and solar, giving more incentives to achieve this, while at the same time stopping the promotion of environmentally harmful sources and interventions such as hydraulic fracturing and not serving third party interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but russia is also an important ally, which some europeans do not count on, and which is both strategically and geopolitically in europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report as olaf has to implement ec regulations and resolutions. the compliance of the dg with the provision of information to the edps and the submission of annual activity reports enhances transparency and the effort for good management.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the annual report on the activities of the olaf supervisory committee for 2014, because that report was sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ olaf is required to implement ec regulations and resolutions. compliance with its dg's policy on the provision of information to the edps and the submission of annual activity reports enhances transparency and good governance.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the hungarian government has the right to hold national consultations on taboo issues, for example the issue of illegal immigration or, in theory, the issue of the death penalty, without any sanction, based on article 7.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the abolition of the death penalty is a major achievement for fundamental rights in europe. the statements by the president of ukraine, viktor orban, on the reintroduction of the death penalty are a departure from the eu's basic objective in the field of human rights. the member state acceding to the eu must respect the acquis communautaire. ukraine should pay greater attention to the integration of the rule of law, media freedom and non-discrimination in the field of migration.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliamentary group of the kke voted against the joint resolution of the social democrats - gue - liberals and greens on the situation in hungary, because it uses as a pretext the reactionary bourgeois government of hungary and its unacceptable actions targeting immigrants and opens the debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty, to deprive the european union and its 'institutions' of judges and enforcement bodies of its 'democratic principles' and 'values'. the resolution goes so far as to require the eu institutions to set up a mechanism that 'functions as a compliance and enforcement tool' in eu member states for ....'breaches of the rule of law', i.e. when it considers that the interests of capital are at stake. they present the eu as the defender of people's freedoms, this inter-state imperialist union which, together with bourgeois governments, including hungary, is crushing the lives and rights of workers for the interests of the monopolies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the hungarian government has the right to hold national consultations on taboo issues, for example the issue of illegal immigration or the issue of the death penalty, without any sanction, based on article 7.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliamentary group of the kke voted against the joint resolution of the social democrats - gue - liberals and greens on the situation in hungary, because it uses as a pretext the reactionary bourgeois government of hungary and its unacceptable actions targeting immigrants and opens the debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty, to deprive the european union and its 'institutions' of judges and enforcement bodies of its 'democratic principles' and 'values'. the resolution goes so far as to require the eu institutions to set up a mechanism that 'functions as a compliance and enforcement tool' in eu member states for ....'breaches of the rule of law', i.e. when it considers that the interests of capital are at stake. they present the eu as the defender of people's freedoms, this inter-state imperialist union which, together with bourgeois governments, including hungary, is crushing the lives and rights of workers for the interests of the monopolies.
the commission the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. i would like to say again, explicitly and unequivocally, that i am opposed to any future accession of turkey to the european union. i would also stress that, firstly, turkey is violating international law in its dealings with greece and cyprus. secondly, turkey is illegally maintaining the casus beli against greece, insofar as my country is applying the international law of the sea and extending its territorial waters to 12 nautical miles. thirdly, turkey is illegally violating greek airspace and greek territorial waters. fourthly, turkey continues to illegally occupy 37% of the territory of cyprus, a member state of the european union, while not recognising the republic of cyprus internationally and at the same time conducting illegal seismic hydrocarbon surveys in the eez of cyprus. the european parliament must also call on ankara to withdraw the turkish occupation troops from cyprus immediately and to respect international law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against this proposal because we are fundamentally opposed to turkey's accession to the eu. turkey has no cultural or ethnic ties to europe. its accession to the eu will act as a fifth column.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the recent elections in turkey have shown that turkish citizens are willing to undergo a process of domestic policy reforms. the rejection of tayyip erdoğan's plans for enhanced powers in the executive branch of the president has demonstrated the resilience of turkish democracy and the democratic spirit. the composition of the new parliamentary parties is "the most representative in modern turkish history". but alignment with the eu's democratic values and principles requires that turkey respects media freedom, freedom of expression, and the independence of the judiciary.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we are opposed to this proposal because we are fundamentally opposed to turkey's accession to the eu. turkey has no cultural or ethnic ties to europe. its accession to the eu will act as a fifth column. we are in agreement with the commission's view that the eu should be able to take action to help turkey to achieve its objectives. we are in total disagreement with the unspoken invitation to compromise and reunification contained in the proposal. we disagree with the classification of the admiral as the leader of the turkish cypriots. we are also concerned about the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet been able to establish a legal basis for the transfer of the turkish territory to the european union.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr ioan mircea paşcu, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia (2015/2036(ini)) (a8-0171/2015).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr. landsbergis, you are denouncing russia for forcibly changing borders in europe by annexing crimea. but if the european union and this parliament were to have the right to make such complaints, should they have taken a similar stance in all the relevant cases? when european countries bombed serbia to achieve border changes and the secession of kosovo, what were the complaints heard in this room? or is it the european union today demanding that serbia accept kosovo's secession in order to proceed with the accession process? isn't there a discrepancy in that?
i would point out that mr vilimsky spoke as an unregistered person, representing himself and not as a representative of the unregistered as some of the booths have translated what i said. i would like to make it clear that, under the rules of procedure, those who are not registered speak for themselves and not for all the non-registered.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the ukraine, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the ukraine, and that we should not be concerned about the situation in the ukraine. i congratulate the rapporteur on having successfully presented the most cold war-related text i have ever seen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the distortion of reality by vague generalizations, assumptions and aphorisms is reminiscent of the cold war period. the blind servicing of the geo-strategic military and economic interests of nato, the united states and certain circles of the european union in the region, for the control and routes of energy resources, honourable colleagues, by demonizing only one country, without a trace of self-criticism and criticism of the policies of your allies, is explained by the conclusion. you stress the need for a military balance in the region and call for a strengthened role for nato and for an increase in military budgets by the member states, of course at the expense of social spending and social cohesion. my outright refusal to the resolution is the least i can do to the voters. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
gue/ngl), a reply to a question with a blue card. mr president, the resolution states that the european union's attitude to the events in georgia in 2008 may have encouraged russia to act in a similar way in ukraine. the resolution does not, therefore, make any criticism of european responsibilities, of american and nato responsibilities for the destabilization of the region and the war in ukraine; who is ultimately responsible? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not ashamed, when in my country hospitals and schools are closed, to try to de-escalate the situation by strengthening nato. is there de-escalation in the region if we continue to sanction one country and create all these problems that we create? so you think we'll solve the problems in an area that's currently on fire? is this the future of europe? is this the future of the area? is that what we're fighting for?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, mr president, the report which you have described as excellent makes no mention of the european union's cooperation with the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. do you really not think that the european union should cooperate with the osce, which is an organization that seeks peace and cooperation in the region, but instead refers too often to nato, which is exacerbating the confrontation and causing serious problems in the black sea?
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. thank you, colleague, for accepting my question. i wanted to ask you very briefly and clearly why, when you refer to the referendum which took place in crimea, you call it illegal, when it was held in accordance with all the principles laid down internationally, there were observers there and, moreover, the difference between yes and no was large?
the commission mr president, many eu countries are involuntarily involved in geopolitical games of influence between nato, the european union and the eurasian union. the attempt to extend nato and the union to the caucasus, moldova and ukraine, the energy hybrid and electronic warfare in the baltic region and the countries of the ionian peninsula, the sanctions against russia, crimea, are all part of the ceaseless struggle for power and leadership by the powerful players in these organizations. let us first of all point out that the annexation, or rather the reunification, of crimea with russia is not illegal because that is what the people of crimea wanted and it is also historically proven. the other baltic states, under the pretext of the supposedly bad russia, have fallen into the trap of german foreign and economic policy as dictated by the united states. they were thus forced into a harsh internal devaluation, extremely painful for their citizens, in order to be able to maintain their stable link to the euro, and without any support from the eurozone at all. when economically strong and geopolitically central european countries such as sweden, denmark and the united kingdom did not adopt the euro, the baltic states rushed to submit to german hegemony, ceding their national sovereignty by being locked into the common currency. anyone with a common sense understands that additional sanctions on russia and talks about military presence and flexible retaliation are leading to an escalation of the crisis and in no way benefit the european union. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. what evidence do you have that the referendum was not legal, as far as the people of crimea and their will is concerned?
the commission madam president, the close proximity and the immense interdependence of the economies of the member states of the european union and russia require that differences be resolved through peaceful dialogue, away from cold war logic that further deepens the contradictions between the two sides. the european union should also focus on peaceful coexistence, mutual benefit and the resolution of disputes by diplomatic rather than military means. otherwise, the cold war situation between the european union and russia will only have negative effects, as has already happened with the huge economic damage suffered by greek farmers due to russian retaliation to the european union's sanctions against russia. we are concerned, madam president, about the fate of the greek minority of 150,000 souls in mariupol, who have lived peacefully for centuries in the wider region, in the donetsk region. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is a political entity, and it is a political entity, and it is a political entity, and it is a political entity.
the commission madam president, once again, in the same play, once again for burundi. we warned that the situation in burundi would lead to conflict. the decision of outgoing president nkurunziza to run for a third term, despite the arusha agreement's decisions to the contrary, has spilled over the top. we condemn the attempted coup and the clashes in burundi in recent weeks. a new civil war is at hand. over a hundred thousand refugees fled to neighboring countries for safety. the restriction of democratic rights and the free political action of opposition parties continues. the new elections will now take place without the democratic guarantees imposed. violence and attacks against dissidents are on the agenda. the violence and fraud in the elections in burundi must therefore be postponed. the international community and the european union must therefore take initiatives. at the same time, the european union must stop development aid to burundi and use the funds to support burundian refugees.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. our message must be clear. football has nothing to do with corruption. those who involve it with her should be punished by example. it is a social good with a huge impact on the daily lives of millions of people. as a european parliament, i believe we have an obligation not only to demand that this matter be resolved immediately, but also to press within our powers for all the necessary reforms to be made for the good of football itself. but, mr president, i want to make one more point before i close. the recent scandal at the world football federation should be a reason to open the debate on the important changes that football needs in general, such as the labour rights of footballers and athletes. it is astonishing that, while everyone is talking about football, there is almost no discussion of the real problems of the protagonists. the real heroes are not just the big stars, they're not just the big teams that we all admire and are happy to see. the real protagonists are the millions of children who, with a ball at their feet, dream of making their dream come true. it is the athletes of the smaller teams, but also the players of the smaller leagues, who make football what it really is: the most popular sport on the planet and a global social phenomenon. what are these people's rights? what about the thousands of kids who, because of one mishap, will end their careers in a heartbreaking way? what do we do about unacceptable practices regarding player rights? my dear colleagues, world football needs change and yes, it needs cleansing at all levels. but it would be unfair to limit the discussion to the alleged phenomena of corruption. what is important is to see real change and reform for the benefit of both the fans and the true protagonists of the sport.
ecr), in writing. fifa has become a state within a state. the various national authorities, international organisations and the eu have allowed fifa to become an arbitrary monopoly entity which abuses its dominant position in the sports market. because sport, and football in particular, has been commercialized. this global football federation has become a billion-euro business monopoly, managing television rights, sponsorships, donations and so on. it is entrusting the organisation of the world cup to various countries, without transparency, without guarantees, while complaints of money laundering and corruption abound. we call on the commissioner for competition, as the ultimate antitrust regulator under article 102 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to open investigations against fifa for abusing a dominant position in the common market. it's the only way to get the knife through the bone. and that is why we will put a question to the commission to get a red card and to fifa.
the commission mr president, the alleged interest in human rights in azerbaijan is pretentious, as is shown first of all by the title of the question, which refers broadly and vaguely to sport and human rights. the reference to human rights issues in azerbaijan in the question is limited to two of the six paragraphs. the question is also vague, since it does not mention any specific human rights incidents in azerbaijan. the aim of the question, as the debate has shown, is to politicise the sporting events which begin in two days' time, on friday, in baku. in addition, we discussed the partnership at the mini-session of the european parliament in brussels a fortnight ago. because the colleagues did not raise these issues then. unlike in riga, the leaders of the european union not only did not raise the issue of human rights protection in azerbaijan, but instead co-signed a joint declaration on democracy and human rights. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, which has a monitoring committee, is responsible for monitoring human rights incidents and will take a decision on the matter in 15 days' time. the council of europe has already made a number of proposals to the council of ministers, and i am sure that the council of ministers will be able to accept them. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has not yet responded to the question. i have mentioned, mr president, that the most competent body for monitoring human rights issues is the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, which meets here in strasbourg, next to us. the european parliament has a monitoring committee, it has a rapporteur on the subject of azerbaijan, it goes on the spot and investigates, so it is this committee which will be responsible for presenting the matter to the council of europe, with data and specific decisions. we must take this seriously. and i explained that in twenty days this committee will meet. the present debate is therefore preparatory in order to produce a preliminary decision, if any, for the decision to be taken at the council of europe. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission has not yet responded to the question. i would like to inform the honourable member that, because before i was elected to the european parliament i was a member of parliament and a member of the council of europe, i know that these procedures exist. if it is as he says, which it is not, the rapporteur responsible for these matters will be able to present them there in 15 days' time, and there will be a special debate, not half an hour as we have here, but several hours, to decide. i would just like to point out, mr president, who will benefit from the situation that is now developing, or will be created in azerbaijan when azerbaijan is isolated, when it is the organization that with the tap supports the energy security of europe? who is the one who will benefit from the breakup of the eastern partnership? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to answer them.
the commission the situation in palmyra is particularly critical. the dangers to the region from isis have increased recently. the destruction of religious and cultural monuments by jihadists is aimed at destabilising populations and destroying their cultural heritage. the jihadists are now engaged in a lucrative smuggling operation of archaeological treasures. palmyra is over two thousand years old and is a cultural treasure, recognized as a unesco world heritage site. measures must be taken to protect ancient palmyra to put an end to the terrorist actions of isis, the massacres of the christian population and the looting of archaeological treasures. the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the syrian regime is able to continue its efforts to prevent the spread of terrorism and to ensure that the syrian regime is able to continue its efforts to prevent the spread of terrorism.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without exonerating the assad regime, which is why i am calling for the immediate release of darwish, i would like to stress that the objective of the intervention in these areas was not the supposed restoration of democratic regimes, but oil. oil and only oil. and we, the european union and all the forces that have supported this unacceptable regime bear responsibility for this.
the commission madam president, the recent occupation of the ancient and historic city of palmyra, together with the destruction of cultural monuments and the massacres of civilians that are taking place there, has once again brought to the surface the wrong policy pursued by the european union on the syrian problem. initially, it tolerated the creation of isis by the us, in cooperation with turkey, israel, qatar and saudi arabia, under the pretext that it would overthrow the assad regime. and when isis, not only failed to overthrow the regime, but turned against the iraqi and syrian people, then it didn't intervene to solve the problem. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. syria will be transformed into a country where everyone will fight against everyone, sunnis against shiites, regime against anti-regime, russia's influence will increase ... (president interrupts speaker).
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, all the wings of the european parliament agree in condemning the islamic state and its crimes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the terrorist organizations that are active in the region. two weeks ago, a turkish mass-circulation newspaper posted on its website footage showing men from turkey's intelligence agency mit helping to ship weapons to jihadists in syria. reuters reported on may 21 that eyewitnesses and prosecutors allege that mit helped deliver weapons to jihadists in syria from late 2013 to early 2014. the veil of silence covering the relations between turkish islamists and syrian jihadists must be lifted and severe sanctions imposed on turkey if it is found to be supporting the islamic state.
the commission the tragedy of the ten-year-old girl is a clear example of the violence and sexual abuse that are taking place in the countries of latin america, which have been impoverished by the international monetary fund. at the same time, child pregnancy in latin america has reached alarming proportions. the international conventions protecting the rights of the child, in particular the un convention on the rights of the child, must be implemented at last to put an end to the rape of minors. we must condemn all forms of domestic violence and seek to increase the penalties for rape of minors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and that the rights of men are protected. there should be awareness campaigns, as early motherhood in latin america is linked to cultural norms, educational level and social status. finally, domestic violence is increasing due to the tensions of poverty and social marginalization of the peoples of latin america.
the commission madam president, i am aware of the plight of the victims of the earthquake, their anguish and their needs, as my country, greece, has been hit by enceladus on many occasions. in nepal the earthquakes have led to 9,000 deaths and thousands of injuries. at the same time, 2.8 million of our fellow human beings are facing a humanitarian crisis. so nepal needs increased international aid and solidarity. first of all, the housing needs to be addressed, with tents in the first phase and a rebuilding programme afterwards. medical care is essential, as is food aid. humanitarian aid must reach everywhere, to all hard-to-reach areas, to all earthquake victims. millions of children in nepal have lost their parents and a child protection network must be set up to prevent them from being kidnapped by the slave traders. madam president, nepal is emitting sos and the european union must respond immediately with even more humanitarian aid.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, i asked for the floor before the agenda was set, but they did not give it to me and said they would give it to me at the end of the speech. that didn't happen. i would therefore like to speak now on this subject, which i had asked to be raised before the agenda. i won't keep you long. in the roman senate, every morning, it was "hannibal ante portas" and from me every day you will hear "hands down from greece", you are not allowed to interfere in my country, where its people are making their own way. you have no right, you who defend the creditors, to help the creditors! the only solution is to stop for a year the freezing of all greek commitments and the greek people will be able to find their own way. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the strategic military situation in the straits basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 10 june 2015, and also because it promotes the revival of a cold war climate in europe, which does not contribute to peace in the wider region.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report is the battle cry of the euro-atlantic monopolies for a generalized imperialist intervention of the eu and nato in the black sea, black sea, caucasus and wider eurasian region. it is a map of military operations and interventions in the region made by the political staff of the monopolies to strengthen their positions in their competition with russian capitalism. the language used is even the same as that of the military "sages" of nato. the report calls not only for the deployment of nato forces and bases in the regions stretching from poland and the baltic states to georgia and azerbaijan, but also for the presence of strong eu naval and air forces to control energy sources and their pipelines to the eu. it shows how dangerous the eu is to the people of its member states and other countries. it does not hesitate, in order to defend the profitability of capital, to prepare even a generalized conflict in the wider region by all means, with incalculable bloodshed for the peoples, as is shown by its intervention, together with the usa and nato, in ukraine.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report is the battle cry of the euro-atlantic monopolies for a generalized imperialist intervention of the eu and nato in the black sea, black sea, caucasus and wider eurasian region. it is a map of military operations and interventions in the region made by the political staff of the monopolies to strengthen their positions in their competition with russian capitalism. the language used is even the same as that of the military "sages" of nato. the report calls not only for the deployment of nato forces and bases in the regions stretching from poland and the baltic states to georgia and azerbaijan, but also for the presence of strong eu naval and air forces to control energy sources and their pipelines to the eu. it shows how dangerous the eu is to the people of its member states and other countries. it does not hesitate, in order to defend the profitability of capital, to prepare even a generalized conflict in the wider region by all means, with incalculable bloodshed for the peoples, as is shown by its intervention, together with the usa and nato, in ukraine.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted in favour of the report because the controls on the taking over and construction of projects relating to the world cup must be made much stricter. the living conditions of the workers on these projects must also be radically changed. fifa should, instead of spending money on meaningless anti-racist campaigns (and that money goes into some pockets), spend it for the good of football.
in writing. ‒ bribery, racketeering, money laundering and fraud are some of the charges against fifa officials who have been arrested last week in zurich. the corruption charges brought by the us department of justice are grave, and the misconduct of the 14 people arrested has been seriously undermining all the educational and cultural values that sport should inspire people with. their cases involve more than usd 150 million-worth of bribes, and the arrests come as a result of long unaccountable operation and systematic fraud practices. it has to be noted that, since sports make an important contribution to growth and jobs, the eu economy suffers major loses from any malpractice in the sector. the eu has an obligation to act in the anticorruption field, and there is a cross border dimension of these crimes that should not be disregarded. safeguarding the integrity of sport and fighting corruption should remain at the core of the eu activities, and for this reason i am in favour of the dmr on these cases.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption in fifa because it is well documented and shows, with irrefutable evidence, the corruption that existed within fifa.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, on monday i saw announcements that seemed to be the solution to the greek problem. the eurogroup's communication was considered very good, the commission welcomed it as a very good basis, at the summit everyone said we were very close to an agreement and suddenly the internal sabotage began. the international monetary fund and some conservative governments, which are a minority in europe, seem not to want an agreement, even though this is in the common interest of both greece and europe. on the contrary, they want to undermine it and they want to humiliate the greek people, to question the need to respect not only the rules but also the democracy. the greek government, in cooperation with the commission, has tabled a proposal to ensure that public finances are managed with primary surpluses, and to promote reforms to combat bureaucracy, corruption and the client state. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it is time for everyone to contribute to finding solutions so that the word grexit is removed from the vocabulary of the european debate, so that the greek people and greece can get back on the road to development. so do not point fingers at us, gentlemen of the conservative party, because you have implemented with the troika - in violation of the rules of the european union - a policy which has caused wage and pension cuts of 30%, tripled unemployment, brought about a recession of 25% and blown up debt from 125% to 80% of gdp. we need sound public finances, but also growth and sustainable debt, and this is a european, political problem which must be solved with common responsibility. we have submitted proposals, we have submitted equivalents, and now some people from the international monetary fund are saying, we do not like equivalents. why would you do that? why do we tax the rich, why do we tax those who have incomes of over fifty thousand euros a year, those who have profits of over five hundred thousand euros a year in a country which has one and a half million unemployed and nine out of ten unemployed people do not get a single euro? the message from my political group is clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. in the interests of democracy, greece and the greek government are ready to agree, but the greek people are not ready to kneel and be humiliated, and everyone must understand that.
the commission the agreement being prepared by the government and the creditors ahead of the summit is driving the working class family in greece into a state of panic, while it provides for new anti-people measures, maintaining the harsh measures of the previous governments. from the so-called tearing of the memoranda promised by the syriza/anel government, a new memorandum is now being proposed to the lenders to service the insupportable debt of the plutocracy that the people do not owe. with increases in indirect taxes, privatizations, abolition of social security rights, increase in social security contributions they bring new unbearable losses to the already shrunken popular income. the communist party of greece calls on the people, without waiting, to reject the blackmail, to reject the government's calls for submission to the realism of the euro-road and the capitalist road of development that brings misery and poverty. oppose the new anti-people agreement and block the anti-people measures by denying the debt. to demand the abolition of the memoranda and the recovery of all losses on the way to a real break with the european union, its capital and its power.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i do not think that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i asked for the report on the previous debate. the bureau promised me the floor and it didn't give it to me. that's the problem. i asked for a minute to talk about the previous issue, he said yes, he sent me a representative to speak and finally he didn't give me the floor, what should i do now?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is a question which i consider to be crucial to the course of europe if it is to be democratic. the question is: will we respect the will of a people, yes or no? the greek people have decided in the elections that they do not want loans, they do not want this course, they want their own course. he wants to make his own future. will we respect it? - yes or no ? it's not a matter of the greek people, it's a matter of democracy. will we respect the will of a people, whatever it may be? - yes or no ? that's the problem. the greek people have decided and are building their present and their future and they do not want to be drowned by their creditors. the negotiations have led nowhere. there's only one solution. no breaking and no submission. after a year, come back and discuss whether we owe to pay, if we don't owe, not to pay. i would like to say that, because i am leaving the european parliament in 20 days, i want each member to answer this question in his own conscience and to know that my opinion will follow you wherever you go, wherever i go.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we find that the european investment fund is unable to deal with the continuing economic crisis in europe and to lead to growth. we are not making the necessary changes to meet the new challenges, and we are not dismissing it as a failed model. but we are creating a new fund and we are calling it the european fund for strategic investments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i get the feeling we're going to create a virtual reality that we just hope will work. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. the treaties, the euro, the stability pact, the reforms, the corrective funds have all failed. the european union is producing poverty, unemployment and euroscepticism. mr. jünger, growth does not come from making luxembourg a tax haven for multinationals. growth will come one way. the european union must be rebuilt in the interests of the people and not the plutocracy.
s & d) and the mr president, i too would like to welcome this excellent effort by everyone, including kathleen van bremst and of course all the rapporteurs on the efsi, as the expectations now being set are very high for the whole of the european union. however, there are equally serious concerns about how leverage will ultimately work to achieve the target of €315 billion. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if there is one dimension i could mention, it is that in countries that have been hit the hardest by the crisis there are significant investment opportunities in cost-effective infrastructure projects and projects, but there is not enough incentive for private sector financing to achieve the necessary leverage. as you can see, the issue for us is a matter of concern as you understand that the selection procedures for these projects... (the president interrupts the speaker)
ecr), in writing. while we are discussing the juncker fund, the troika is continuing its credit strangulation of greece. it is pressing for continued austerity, forcible fiscal adjustment and reduction of public resources as well as the public investment programme which could act as a lever for investment in greece. as regards the juncker fund, as we have already pointed out in our previous speeches to the european parliament, investments are not made with a 'spare wind', but with funds that the juncker plan does not have. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr theurer, you spoke of respect for the rules, obviously, of economic governance. in your opinion, do these rules include fundamental rights and in particular social rights or not? when the troika demands that greece, for example, abolish all pension rights and leave no room for a decent living for pensioners in order to supposedly reduce the excessive budget deficit, which is in fact widening even further, is this a violation of social rights or not?
the commission the european union is turning against the people and attacking the rights of working people in order to serve the interests of monopoly economic circles. the deepening of economic and monetary union means strengthening the mechanisms of the anti-people strategy of capital and of the european union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a very good one. the common objective of the eu monopolies is to further reduce the price of labour. no matter how much you take measures, no matter how much you talk about convergence, the inequality and the capitalist crisis cannot be avoided. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. organizing and attacking to satisfy their own needs, disengagement from the european union with the economy and power in their hands.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the figures and data show that the current framework of economic governance has failed, because social and regional inequalities have grown, because the eurozone economy is doing much worse than the united states economy, because unemployment and poverty have increased, because the debt of fifteen of the nineteen eurozone member states is above the provisions of the treaties and has increased particularly in recent years, and because investment has decreased. so changes are needed, and these changes are not proposed by the berès report. changes in the field of taxation, in the field of investment, in the field of strengthening cohesion policies, in the distorted architecture of the euro area. this is not because the rapporteur did not want them and did not propose them at the outset, even if inadequately, but because she accepted, in a bad compromise, the pressure of the european right who want an à la carte eurozone, which would suit only the rich and powerful.
the commission mr president, strengthening economic governance is necessary to address imbalances within the euro area, to increase stability and competitiveness. the lack of stability is what is undermining my country, greece, today, and that is why it is necessary in the next few hours to let out white smoke, to reach an agreement. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek banks have been able to obtain a loan from the state. it is also necessary to look at the recipe for the next day. the greek government cannot raise taxes and limit structural changes. it is necessary that greece does not fall back into the cycle of recession, because this will have an impact on the whole of the economic governance of the euro area.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is pressing for continued austerity, forcible fiscal adjustment and reduction of public resources and public investment programme. and all this to pay off the creditors. mr katainen, the memorandum has failed in greece. the public debt rose from one hundred and twenty-seven percent of gdp to one hundred and eighty percent of gdp. the troika has given loans to greece of eur 214 billion over the last five years. and yet we have one and a half million unemployed in greece. so where did the money go, mr. katainen? because if they had invested in greece, then the economy would have taken off and we wouldn't have armies of unemployed people. in order to provide relief to greece and to put an end to the humanitarian crisis, the memoranda must be abolished, the troika must leave greece, the shameful debt must be cancelled, the eurozone must learn to respect the democratic will of the greek people who, in the elections of 25 january, decided to throw the troika out of greece.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. the european institutions behave as if the rules on excessive budget deficits take precedence over the rules on fundamental rights, especially social rights. but in this way the european institutions themselves are undermining the very basis of the european union, namely respect for the fundamental rights of the individual. at a time when millions of people in greece, as well as in other european countries, are starving or unable to heat their homes in winter, the frankfurt stock exchange is setting one historical record after another. at the same time the commission is blackmailing the greek government to abolish the meagre heating allowance for the poor. if europe does not change course, if it does not fortify itself through social redistribution from the economically strongest to the weakest - and not the other way around as is happening today - it is in danger of collapsing. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, we are certainly ready for reforms, and the big reform, the real reform, is the fight against tax evasion. but this requires time and the help of the other european states to be able to organise. the commission, like the european central bank, is instead demanding so-called reforms which are leading to the further violent impoverishment of people already at or below the thresholds of survival. this is not reform. this is a violation of the european treaties.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ecofin is implementing the stability and growth pact with double standards. when it comes to germany and france, he turns a blind eye, gives a pass and tolerates the violation of the rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greece has been under the stranglehold and supervision of the troika for five years, which has become the watchdog of the eurogroup and ecofin. the stability and growth pact is an anti-democratic instrument which imposes total control over the democratic functioning of the member states. in order to be relieved of the enhanced fiscal surveillance, greece must enter in its state budget the debts of germany to greece, i.e. war reparations and the forced occupation loan, overdue claims and interest amounting to eur 162 billion plus interest. because greece is the creditor and germany is the debtor!
the commission the commission is proposing a package of measures on tax transparency. first of all, let us overlook the irony of the fact that the president of the commission is mr juncker, former prime minister of luxembourg, the capital of tax evasion in the union. in fact, the package is nothing more than a list of air, full of clever definitions with countless gaps, designed to keep the big companies tax-avoiding and to make the small and mediumsized enterprises, which are not networked like the multinationals, bear more tax burdens. the commission's view is doomed to fail in the end, as have so many other regulations and provisions which have done nothing but turn the union into a maze of bureaucracy hostile to both healthy and legitimate businesses and suffering workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. one could be the answer to all of this. a clear and secure investment environment that will remain stable for many years. as long as we have a single market with different tax rates in each member state, the phenomenon of tax evasion will never be eliminated. as the alternative to a common taxation across the union would be an unacceptable transfer of national sovereignty, the solution is to abolish the single market and to introduce the obligation for companies to set up subsidiaries in the countries where they want to operate, which would be taxed locally.
the commission madam president, it is well known that for economic growth to take place in a country, there must be investment in that country, which is facilitated by the existence of a fair tax system. the need for such a system is also present in the european union, where, because of the free movement of goods, many multinational companies are active at european and global level. the commission's proposal for a fair tax system to replace the existing system was discussed earlier. the european union is seeking to create a fair and secure business environment, characterised by transparency and the ability to support companies that are consistent with their tax obligations. but the question arises. how can a tax system be fair if it does not take account of the tax specificities and problems of companies in the countries affected by the crisis? how is it possible, for example, in greece, for the institutions, or the troika as we used to say, to require greek companies to pay 29% vat and at the same time to be efficient and to make a profit? on the other hand, the european union does not want to intervene, and for that very reason we must accept that we must put aside the hypocrisy and recognize and admit that unfortunately this tax system is not fair. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
the commission madam president, at a time when the troika has imposed a new tax burden on the backs of the greek people, impoverished by the memorandum, mr juncker's luxembourg, the netherlands and other member states of the european union are operating in their territory as tax havens for german and other multinational companies which have increased profitability from their activities in greece. the same is true of well-known greek oligarchs who evade taxes through offshore companies. lux leaks-type policies have deprived greece of billions of euros in tax revenue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the excessive deficit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, corruption and money laundering. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected.
the commission the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in greece, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to ensure that the situation in greece is not further worsened. i have said it before in this chamber, the memorandum failed. the memorandum filled greece with armies of unemployed and millions of poor. it has slashed wages and pensions and caused a huge humanitarian crisis. the troika and the creditors got richer and the greeks got poorer. of the two hundred and fourteen billion euros given as loans to greece, ninety-six percent of these sums went back into the pockets of the lenders. madam president, the troika is continuing its policy of blackmail even at this very moment. it is tightening the noose around greece, demanding further cuts in wages and pensions, demanding the sale of public property instead of a billboard, imposing a new anti-people tax-avoidance policy of eight billion euros, with an increase in vat on basic foodstuffs, intensifying the humanitarian crisis. but let the troika know that the greek people will soon throw them out of our country.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it wasn't true, but the government made a new proposal the other day. at first everyone said very well, it's a very good proposal, but suddenly they changed their mind and are asking for things that are unacceptable. because the real goal is not to make a deal. it is this government that must either fall or be forced to change. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the question is: can a people respecting the framework of the agreement change the policy of previous governments a little bit, or not? why, if not, why do we vote at all? does the election make sense? they think they are murdering tsipras and syriza, but in reality they are murdering democracy.
in writing. ‒ we are voting, firstly because we are in favour of abolishing parliamentary privileges as everyone should be equal before the law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotiris zarianopoulos, because the waiver of the colleague's immunity opens the way for the exercise of political persecution against him aimed at criminalising his political activity.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against, despite the fact that we are opposed to parliamentary privileges, as everyone should be equal before the law. but in this case, the judiciary is serving political interests, and it is not accusing mr voigt of crimes of opinion in clear violation of his right to freedom of speech.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are opposed to parliamentary privileges, as everyone should be equal before the law. but in this case, the judiciary is serving political interests and not the administration of justice.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report proposes the creation of a new fund (european fund for strategic investments) which will aim to finance eu businesses with €60 billion. the commission has already proposed that the funds should be used for the purpose of financing the community's activities in the field of research and technological development. (eib, eib) the eib is the largest financial institution in the world. the problem of poverty and unemployment is not solved by creating funds which are more a means of manipulating public opinion than a solution to the problem.
in writing. – i voted against this report because this plan not only does not represent a proper investment plan as it brings no fresh money, but it does not bring a much needed and urgent change of policies, nor does it contribute to an enlarged trend in increased public investment. furthermore, i agree that what was needed would be to develop a true plan of public investment through the emission of new money, with the ecb and the eib involved. but there is nothing of the sort. the efsi, while facilitating and easing access to credit for micro, small, medium-sized and even social enterprises, keeps the logic of the ʽinnovative financial instrumentsʼ: aggravating the transfer of risk to the public sector and ensuring a high return for private investors, with a medium/long-term transfer of costs to european citizens. the absence of a true public investment plan will have as an impact that this plan will entail the aggravation of the privatisation of public strategic and fundamental sectors, in particular in the peripheral and poorer regions and member states, at the cost of the public interest, while its impact on the european economy remains highly questionable.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013 for the reasons set out in my written declaration to that effect submitted pursuant to rule 162 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament concerning the european fund for strategic investments.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the fight against poverty and unemployment is not achieved by creating funds, which are more a means of manipulating public opinion than a solution to the problem.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund is in theory there to support short-term redundant employees who used to work in large companies. we believe that his funds are already being misused to support third-party companies. we believe that the 630 000 euro allocated for technical assistance to the commission, conferences and information can be used to provide real support for the unemployed.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the result of the ongoing global crisis is that many workers are not only losing their jobs but also have difficulty reintegrating into the existing socioeconomic environment. in my vote in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i am advocating that aid to workers be provided in a rapid and effective manner, and in particular that youth participation and employment be strengthened in the labour market, which will constitute a substantial response to the global economic crisis.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given to the dismissed on a regular basis, not at conferences and briefings.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because the report does nothing more than promote and perpetuate the failed model of economic governance that led to the current crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the excessive deficit of the member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the current economic governance framework has failed. any change or improvement would have the effect of preserving the "ancien régime". i voted against the report on the review of the economic governance framework because i believe that only replacing it with a new legal framework for economic governance can be a constructive solution for the future.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the review of the economic governance framework: review and challenges, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 24 june 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke voted against the report because it promotes measures to strengthen the eu's economic governance and deepen emu, which intensify the eu's and bourgeois governments' harsh attack on the peoples in all its member states, strike at the rights of working people and further reduce the price of labour, in order to ensure the competitiveness and profitability of european monopoly groups, in order to become more powerful in the field of imperialist competitions for the division of markets. the kke does not enter into the debate on individual measures and proposals, because it does not legitimize the debate on the ways and forms in which exploitation, poverty and the misery of the workers will grow and deepen. the emu, whatever its 'architecture', 'economic governance', the stability pact, the euro pact, the fiscal pact, the esm, is an 'iron' mechanism for imposing anti-people measures. he's not getting corrected. those who claim that the eu can change for the benefit of the people are deliberately deceiving the workers to keep them in irons in the cart of their exploiters. the only way to the people's prosperity is the break with the eu, capital and its power, for disengagement from the eu, socialization of monopolies with workers' and people's power.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the failed model of economic governance that led to the current crisis must not continue. it is more likely to undermine the sovereignty of the member states, effectively establishing the economic dictatorship of brussels, than to provide a solution to the real problems of the citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke voted against the report because it promotes measures to strengthen the eu's economic governance and deepen emu, which intensify the eu's and bourgeois governments' harsh attack on the peoples in all its member states, strike at the rights of working people and further reduce the price of labour, in order to ensure the competitiveness and profitability of european monopoly groups, in order to become more powerful in the field of imperialist competitions for the division of markets. the kke does not enter into the debate on individual measures and proposals because it does not legitimize the debate on the ways and forms in which exploitation, poverty and the misery of the workers will grow and deepen. the emu, whatever its 'architecture', 'economic governance', the stability pact, the euro pact, the fiscal pact, are 'iron' mechanisms for imposing anti-people measures. they don't get corrected. those who claim that the eu can change for the benefit of the people are deliberately deceiving the workers to keep them in irons in the cart of their exploiters. the only way to the people's prosperity is the break with the eu, capital and its power, for disengagement from the eu, socialization of monopolies with workers' and people's power.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are intended to make the commission more transparent in its approach to the budgetary procedure. i would like to ask you, mr president, to give your opinion on the procedure to be followed in this matter. i would also like to ask my fellow members not to be slandered for my defending our president, martin schulz. strange, i will defend him, because his love for greece was expressed repeatedly but the greek people rejected his proposal to be the monarch commander of the creditors in greece. but because i know his love for greece, i would suggest that he come to greece, become a greek citizen and join any of the parties he wants and i will defend him and support him. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission mr president, the construction of the capital markets union is aimed at boosting business investment as well as infrastructure investment. the capital markets association should be an additional source of financing for enterprises, and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. the banks were bailed out by taxpayers' money after the financial crisis, and after they were bailed out, they no longer invest their capital in the real economy but in the casino economy. i believe that special purpose investment banks and local cooperative banks should be strengthened in particular, in order to support small and mediumsized enterprises and local economies, to support employment in the south and in greece, where the european central bank has imposed credit strangulation and paved the way for capital controls, in order to enforce the plans of the lenders in greece where there is no longer a capital market and certainly no banks. but the greek people just yesterday said a resounding 'no' to the memoranda and to austerity.
the commission the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i think that it is important that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the environment is a very important factor in the development of the european union. but the approach is again the indicators, the change in perception, the measurement of progress, zero waste; goals that are practically unlikely to be achieved. but i wanted to stand at a particular point in the exhibition. it is stated that small and mediumsized enterprises must be placed at the centre of efforts to use resources efficiently. but it is these enterprises that are being destroyed by the policies of the union, a union profoundly anti-democratic, controlled by a bureaucracy willing to destroy not only small and mediumsized enterprises but whole peoples when they dare to resist its mandates. we witnessed one such attack last week. those who have impoverished the greeks with their memorandum policies, and president schulz himself, have intervened in an attempt to terrorize the greeks in order to comply with the wishes of brussels. but the greek people were not afraid and yesterday they gave a very strong message. the european union must therefore take care to listen to the wishes of the european citizens, otherwise the resources will be exhausted before the people.
the commission mr president, resource efficiency is now an urgent environmental issue. the transition to a sustainable and circular economy must be coupled with, firstly, the promotion of decent work, secondly, the protection of the environment, thirdly, strong social parameters and fourthly, the guarantee of safe working conditions. the adoption of new waste targets should also be stepped up, as this could create 180 000 jobs and reduce the demand for costly resources in order to make europe competitive. but while we are talking about the circular economy, in greece the economy has been dismantled. thousands of small and medium-sized businesses have shut down. the banks are closed. the troika in its negotiations with greece is continuing its failed policy, which has filled my country with armies of unemployed. but the greek people in yesterday's referendum said a resounding no to unemployment, no to international economic control, no to the ultimatums of the troika. this should be taken seriously by the eurozone leaders at their summit tomorrow.
the commission madam president, the common agricultural policy must aim at balanced territorial development from an economic and social point of view. this means that livestock farming must continue to be productive and sustainable, especially in remote and mountainous areas. in greece, dairy production in the aegean islands has been particularly affected. in addition, island and mountain areas have higher costs for the production, collection and marketing of milk and milk products. particular care must be taken with regard to livestock. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. in addition, the dairy sector has suffered enormous economic damage due to the russian embargo. finally, the troika's policy in greece is dismantling the primary sector, increasing the cost of production and supplies. the troika, however, got the answer it deserves with the massive 'no' vote of the farmers in yesterday's referendum.
the commission madam president, it should first be noted that the european union must apply the principle of cohesion to its trade, investment and development policies. however, while the european union has kept its public procurement markets open to international competition, union enterprises still face barriers abroad. on the other hand, multinational companies in the european union must operate in accordance with the oecd guidelines in force. in addition, the un guiding principles on business and human rights must be applied inside and outside the european union. the development companies must also ensure that public development funding is not channelled to the various multinationals, but is used to support local economic networks. finally, if the european union is to achieve real growth and investment in developing countries, the debts of developing countries to the international monetary fund, the world bank and the african development bank must be cancelled.
the commission madam president, greek fruit and vegetable producers, although they have suffered enormous damage from the russian embargo, have nevertheless received a small amount of compensation. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community, which will be submitted to the council in the near future. at the same time, they continue to be exploited by the big business. the troika's proposals are dismantling the primary sector in greece and calling for the abolition of the special schemes for farmers and the refunds on motor oil, and for an increase in the tax rate on farmers' profits, despite the fact that greek farmers' income has fallen by eur 1.5 billion and their taxes have increased by 150%. the greek fruit and vegetable sector should therefore be given special support, since without this support it is extremely difficult for new fruit and vegetable producers to be supported and to move forward.
the commission madam president, the upgrading of european transport must be done with the passenger in mind and, as the report shows, the provision of correct and reliable information is the first step towards this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. in the transport sector, the online reservation and purchase system should be made simpler and more manageable by all ages, especially the elderly. reduced prices should also be provided for disabled persons and the elderly and more attention should be paid to their specific requirements. as regards the tourism sector, the reservation system should be available in all the official languages of the european union and should provide reduced rates for students, the unemployed and large families. finally, the multimodal ticket could be integrated into tourist package holidays in order to attract even more tourists.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr. president, i first object to the words of the liars, the foreigners, the tyrants who seek death. for he comes not as a man to a man, but as a free man to a free city. for the law gives only a portion of the inheritance to those who are poor, and to those who are rich, even to those who are rich. it's the answer of theseus when thebes asked who is a tyrant in athens. i have chosen this passage from the ancient greek and i will choose another passage from the latin, which i believe our president, martin schulz, knows very well. thomas aquinas said, "timeo hominem unius libri" which means "time of man, united book". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre and the right)
ecr), in writing. today we are taking stock of the latvian presidency, which officially started on 1 january 2015 and ended on 30 june 2015. i would just like to focus on the three main priorities of the outgoing presidency, as expressed by prime minister mrs strautzoema. i think that the latvian presidency has failed to advance the objectives of both the famously competitive europe and the digital europe. moreover, the union's presence on the international scene falls short of the important aspirations of the peoples of europe for an eu of peace and international cooperation. the european union has also been able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union, and we are pleased to see that the european union has taken the initiative in this respect. the latvian presidency is a failure, taking the baton from the equally failed greek presidency.
the commission madam president, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is the most serious effort ever made between the european union and the united states to achieve growth, competitive economies and prosperity for people. it will also set new principles and rules for international trade. mrs clinton said that this relationship is a trade nato, that is to say, a trade agreement equivalent to the agreement in the military field. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must ensure that we have the necessary information, particularly in the area of service provision, but also that we secure personal data. we must not allow this agreement to become a vehicle for the interests of multinational companies. we should also not give away public services like energy, water and hospitals. we must not remove the institutional barriers which prohibit the uncontrolled profitability of multinational companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind.
the commission madam president, the transatlantic agreement is being prepared through intense opposition from the european union and the united states. it is an economic nato, which is as unpopular and barbaric as the military. it seeks to strengthen euro-atlantic monopolies against their competitors in russia, china and elsewhere. the single economic area means common rules that are tightening up: the abolition of tariffs, the restriction of the movement of capital and goods, the liberalisation of markets, privatisations culminating in the investor-state dispute settlement (isds) mechanism are all aimed at restoring the profitability of multinationals. and all this goes hand in hand with the most iron rule: escalation of the anti-people offensive, strike on wages, social security, social rights, commercialization of social goods, undermining food security, painful consequences for poor and middle-class farmers and the self-employed. the amendments by the parties to the euro-road for individual improvements not only do not change its character but mislead and legitimize it. the ttip is not changing. let the people rise up to defeat it and overturn the path of development it serves.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, first of all i would like to thank president schulz for his comments on the political situation in greece in the past few days. he even said he was ready to appoint a technocratic government to replace the elected government. even in the best of times of colonialism, we had never seen such interference. and i want to thank him because he shows the sense of democracy that exists in this deal that we're talking about, where instead of governments and people, it's going to be decided by certain politicians and basically multinational corporations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there must be mutants. will there be a democracy ? mr schulz will not be here to ask him, but you should know that after 30 years, colleagues who voted in favour, your children may ask you what you voted for 30 years ago and you will have nothing to say to them... (the president interrupts)
the commission madam president, the report under discussion presents the ttip project, i.e. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, as an opportunity for further growth and strengthening of the labour market. the truth is that the benefits of ttip are uncertain and the threats to greece and its citizens are certain. the concerns in the agricultural, environmental and social sectors are manifold. the united states has not signed the major international conventions on organic pollutants. the ttip puts at risk various greek agricultural products registered as pdos, that is, as products with designations of origin, exported to the usa, and we risk flooding europe with genetically modified food. in addition, the ttip will completely deregulate the european agricultural market and will irreparably damage greek olive oil. finally, ttip abolishes the existing system of judicial protection and american multinationals are effectively entitled to a right of appeal, and they can even bring cases against eu member states before special arbitration tribunals, bringing claims for hundreds of billions of euros.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it proposes the appointment of another member to the court of auditors whose structure, functioning and role are fully representative of the system of power that has led our country and many others to the current tragic situation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against, as it is proposed to appoint another member to the court of auditors whose structure, functioning and role are fully representative of the system of power that has led my country and many others to the current tragic situation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors because i consider that the report is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed to appoint another member to the court of auditors whose structure, functioning and role fully represent the system of power that has led our country and many others to the current tragic situation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it merely seeks to codify existing legislation without the possibility of amending it. the existing legislation is lacking in detail and we are not in agreement with it as a whole.
in writing. i am voting against the report because it merely codifies existing legislation without any possibility of amendment. the existing legislation is lacking in detail and i do not agree with it as a whole.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the world trade organisation, because the consultative group, consisting of the respective legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, has found by common agreement that the proposal does indeed constitute merely a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the codification of texts should be an opportunity to reassess their content in terms of substance and not just in terms of type.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it merely seeks to codify existing legislation without the possibility of amending it. the existing legislation is lacking in detail and we are not in agreement with it as a whole.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report, because it merely seeks to codify existing legislation without the possibility of amending it. the existing legislation is lacking in detail and i do not agree with it as a whole.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of ships against injurious pricing, because the consultative group, consisting of the respective legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, has found by common agreement that the proposal does indeed merely codify the existing texts, without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the codification of texts should be an opportunity to reassess their content in terms of substance and not just in terms of type.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation, as this involvement is unacceptable.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this recommendation is in fact an attempt to involve all the eu institutions in the process of concluding any trade agreement between a member state and a third country. i am voting against the recommendation, as this is unacceptable.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the approval by the european union of the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana, because this recommendation properly grants the right to fish in eu waters to vessels registered in venezuela.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements should be sought that promote the development of the member states of the european union without prejudice to their national and economic interests.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report, as the transfer of the 2014 surplus to the 2015 budget is not made in targeted areas where there are real needs, but as a reserve of additional payments, which means that they will be given at will and for the benefit of those in power.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the transfer of the 2014 surplus to the 2015 mff is not carried out in targeted areas where there are real needs, but as a reserve of additional payments, which means that they will be given at will and for the benefit of those in power. that is why i am voting against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 the entry of the surplus for the financial year 2014, as the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the share of gni-based contributions of the member states to the union budget by eur 1,435 billion.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the transfer of the 2014 surplus to the 2015 mff is not carried out in targeted areas where there are real needs, but as a reserve of additional payments, which means that they will be given at will and for the benefit of those in power.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i remain convinced that the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters, which is why i am voting in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 - accompanying the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy - because the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the share of gni-based contributions from member states to the union budget by eur 1,435 billion.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when there are reasons to compensate countries affected by natural disasters.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as i remain convinced that the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters, which is why i am voting in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund: floods in romania, bulgaria and italy
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, as it is comprehensive and well-founded in that it concerns compensation for floods in romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when there are reasons to compensate countries affected by natural disasters.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the text is unclear and because it is precisely because of this ambiguity that it is likely to lead to a further reduction of national sovereignty and the ability of states to control their territory.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the provision of integrated multimodal ticketing in europe, firstly because the text is unclear and secondly because it is precisely this ambiguity that is likely to lead to a further reduction of national sovereignty and the ability of states to control their territory.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the provision of an integrated ticketing system for multimodal transport in europe for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 6 july 2015 and because this report promotes the upgrading of european transport.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report on the provision of an integrated ticketing system for multimodal travel in europe seeks to enhance competitiveness and open up new areas of profitability for monopolies by promoting, inter alia, the 'combined use of several means of transport with a single ticket', 'real-time information systems'. as long as the transport sector remains in the hands of business groups, ordinary families are suffering from the rising costs of transportation, while connections to remote areas are shrinking with multiple consequences for the lives of residents. the electronic passenger file is also generalised by processing personal and movement data. the solution lies in another society and organization of the economy, with socialization of the means of production, with central, nationwide scientific planning in the transport sector and everywhere with the criterion of meeting social needs rather than profit. with the distribution of labour and work for all, with the exploitation of the socialized sector of industry, the design for an interconnected and complementary functioning of transport (roads, airports, etc.) will be to the benefit of the people with the aim of the fast and cheap movement of people and goods, the saving of energy, the balanced intervention in the environment, the planned development to eliminate regional inequalities, the full control of the defense and security of the socialist state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the text is unclear and is likely to lead to a further reduction of national sovereignty and the ability of states to control their territory.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report on 'providing an integrated ticketing system for multimodal travel in europe' seeks to enhance competitiveness and open up new areas of profitability for monopolies by promoting, inter alia, 'the combined use of several means of transport with a single ticket', 'real-time information systems'. as long as the transport sector remains in the hands of business groups, ordinary families are suffering from the rising costs of transportation, while connections to remote areas are shrinking with multiple consequences for the lives of residents. the electronic passenger file is also generalised by processing personal and movement data. the solution lies in another society and organization of the economy, with socialization of the means of production, with central, nationwide scientific planning in the transport sector and everywhere with the criterion of meeting social needs rather than profit. with the distribution of labour and work for all, and the exploitation of the socialized sector of industry, the design for an interconnected and complementary functioning of transport (road, air and sea) will be to the benefit of the people with the aim of the fast and cheap movement of people and goods, the saving of energy, the balanced intervention in the environment, the planned development to eliminate regional disparities, the full control of the defense and security of the socialist state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the extension of the mandate of the special committee as its performance to date (the tax haven of luxembourg is a typical example) is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ in any event, my vote is against the commission's unacceptable performance to date, with luxembourg's tax haven as a prime example.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of extending the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect in order to continue the investigation and shed light on the practice followed in the application of state aid law and eu tax law in relation to tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect taken by member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the aim is simply to codify existing legislation without any possibility of amending it. the existing legislation is lacking in detail and we are not in agreement with it as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because the fight against poverty and unemployment is not achieved by creating funds, which are more a means of manipulating public opinion than a solution to the problem.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against draft amending budget no 1/2015: european fund for strategic investments (efsi) because i believe that the fight against poverty and unemployment is not achieved by creating funds, which are more a means of manipulating public opinion than a solution to the problem.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the report on the position of the council with regard to draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii - commission, accompanying the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013, as i consider that the report is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the confirms its willingness to approve this plan with a view to the efsi becoming operational as soon as possible. the problem of poverty and unemployment is not solved by creating funds, which are more a means of manipulating public opinion than a solution to the problem.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it essentially calls for the reception and integration of migrants to be strengthened, thus aiming at improving their living conditions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against draft amending budget no 5 in the 2015 general budget - addressing migration pressures, as it calls for additional funding to support the european asylum support office (easo).
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 - addressing migratory pressures, as i consider that the report is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ funds to deal with the migration problem must be used to prevent migration flows.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because, although the report is in the right direction, we believe that the solutions it proposes will cause further distortions in the market and do not fully protect the rights of producers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the prospects for the eu dairy sector - review of the implementation of the dairy package, because, although the report is in the right direction, i believe that the solutions it proposes will cause further market distortions and do not fully protect the rights of producers.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the prospects for the eu dairy sector review of the implementation of the dairy package, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament on 6/7/2015 and because it does not take into account the damage suffered by dairy production in greece, with the troika having dismantled the primary sector, burdening my fellow farmers with poverty and misery.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ by subsidizing the withdrawal of agricultural products, the union is choosing to continue the policy that destroyed greek production while, at the same time, with its foreign policy, it is causing enormous damage that it is not willing to repair.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the ppps have mainly been used as a destabilising factor in public services and consequently in channelling official development assistance (mainly in developing countries) to private companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report, as the ppps have mainly been used as a destabilising factor in public services and consequently in channelling official development assistance (mainly in developing countries) to private companies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the there is no doubt that sustainable development is closely linked to private investment and finance. the contribution of investment in developing countries can help to support local economies and combat unemployment. however, it is still 'unclear' how public utilities could be privately managed when the aim of companies is short-term profit maximisation rather than fair investment.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 6 july 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ ppps have been used primarily as a destabilising factor in public services and as a consequence of channelling, mainly in developing countries, official development assistance to private companies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the union chooses to continue the policy that destroyed greek production by subsidizing the withdrawal of agricultural products, while at the same time with its foreign policy it causes enormous damage that it is not willing to repair.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the fruit and vegetable sector from the 2007 reform until today, because the union chooses to continue the policy that destroyed greek production by subsidizing the withdrawal of agricultural products, while at the same time with its foreign policy it causes enormous damage that it is not willing to repair.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on the report on the fruit and vegetables sector after the 2007 reform until today for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 6 july 2015.
the commission the cofferati report emphasizes two points: first of all, the social dimension of the enterprise, because this is an important element, especially at a time like the present, when we are facing a huge economic crisis and thousands of people are unemployed. the second is the emphasis on transparency, transparency about the action of the company itself, transparency about the relations of the shareholders with the company, transparency about who the shareholders in the company are, transparency about the relations of the shareholders with the managers of the company. indeed, in this phase of globalization, there are central questions: why do you invest in a business? where does the funding come from? is the investment made to support the company itself or for money laundering or tax evasion and avoidance purposes? also, where do the big multinational corporations pay their taxes? what will be the role of the workers themselves in the enterprise, who must play an important role? the report contains the answers to all these questions.
the commission mr president, the legislative proposal to reform the european emissions trading system proposes the creation of a reserve for the market stability of the system and as a solution to the imbalances between supply and demand of emission allowances. those imbalances have led to a surplus of around two billion allowances in the 2013-2020 trading period and thus reduce incentives for low-carbon investments. the aim is therefore to correct the deficiencies in the system so as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the creation of a market stability reserve, in the existing system, will be ineffective, however, unless serious and sustainable investments in alternative energy sources are planned and financed. without these investments, tackling climate change and the european union's transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy will remain a blank slate.
the committee on regional development, which adopted the opinion, is also in favour of the proposal. mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, the money given through the structural funds is a significant, active boost to economic activity through synergies across the countries of the european union, but in fact the only source of funding for countries in crisis both for the economy and for social cohesion. in order to achieve this, the timetable presented by the european commission for resolving the problem of outstanding payments from the previous programming period must be implemented without any deviation. it's obvious we're in danger of being in front of an avalanche. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. when reviewing the multiannual financial framework in 2016, we also need to take into account the new data generated by the crisis in the affected countries. we must ensure that the efsi returns in full, together with the profits, the funds it uses from horizon and ses. we have to hurry. we must ensure that the money of the new taxpayers reaches the real economy and that we do not repeat the same mistakes.
the commission mr president, we are discussing the 2016 european union budget, which provides for commitment appropriations of eur 153.5 billion, a paltry sum compared to the eur 1.6 trillion allocated by the member states to bail out the banks. it's a pittance compared to the 1.1 trillion euros mr draghi has available for quantitative easing and buying public and private debt. however, even in the context of budgetary austerity in the 2016 budget, these funds should be allocated mainly to job creation, support for the unemployed, combating poverty, supporting the action of small and medium-sized enterprises, social, economic and territorial cohesion of the union, sustainable agriculture, regional development, in particular of island regions, supporting solidarity actions in the countries of the european south and especially in greece, which has been impoverished by austerity and the memoranda.
the commission the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not just the european parliament that has been a party to it. prudence is a good guard. from enemies, not friends, we learned to build high walls and build great ships. this lesson saves our children, our homes, our possessions. in europe we talk about security; against what enemy? the extremists of the islamic state, whose creation are they? drugs, cross-border crime, smuggling rings, human traffickers... which power centers are they funding? we have translated the brutal intervention in syria and libya into a restoration of legitimacy. the foreigners living among us have been transformed into european citizens, who are filling the ranks of terrorist organizations. the millions of illegal immigrants we have christened illegal immigrants. you have made europe unfortified. while we are voting on reports and amendments, the enemy is killing christians, destroying ancient monuments, recruiting new fighters and planning the sabotage of europe. you've forgotten that the best way to confront the enemy is on the battlefield, not waiting for them to invade our homes. but the first enemy we must face is within ourselves. often he's the only one.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the agenda we are discussing today is a reminder of the real need to instill a sense of security in the peoples of europe. but the "security or freedom" dilemma is artificial and misleading. we can have more security and together more freedom and justice. this requires full respect for international and european human rights law and democratic principles. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we need more solidarity both within societies and between the member states of the union, and not punitive logic such as is being used today against the greek people, who have suffered for years, and which tomorrow may be applied to anyone else. but european integration cannot be based on fear. europe needs a broader change of course before it is too late.
madam president, i have listened to the debate very carefully and i would like to bring up a specific element and observation from the czech republic, my country, in a relatively general debate. we in the czech republic are leading the debate as lawyers whether czech law allows punishing the phenomenon of foreign fighters. it's not clear, there are different legal opinions on whether or not participation in armed forces, such as the islamic state, is a crime. i would therefore strongly recommend (and this is my advice to the european commission and to the commissioner) that we really update the framework decision on terrorism within the framework of the programme and clearly define that the phenomenon of foreign fighters is a criminal offence, it should be a criminal offence in all the legal systems of all the member states of the european union, and we have clearly described what the phenomenon of the foreign fighter means, so that we can have these regulations uniform, and so be able to fight together effectively against europeans going off to fight in the colours of the islamic state.
the commission madam president, as is well known, criminal activities know no borders and are global in nature. terrorism, organised crime, prostitution, arms smuggling, cyber piracy are some of the areas covered by the new european agenda for security 2015-2020. the question is how we can best protect european security, how we can make security more efficient for the 500 million inhabitants of the european union. i believe that mutual trust between the member states of the european union, more effective crossborder cooperation with frontex and closer cooperation with other international organisations such as the osce could make european security more effective and more crucial to the objectives and results it seeks. the new european agenda on security must serve society and the citizen himself, and that means ensuring a framework that respects the fundamental freedoms of european citizens, their personal data and their privacy.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hear proposals all the time, i read the amendments, and for a moment i thought we could actually solve this problem. but then i thought of the destruction and despair that the union's policies have caused. for five years my country has been implementing the reforms that reports are calling for in all countries: the reforms that have tripled unemployment, which theoretically would disappear; the reforms that have doubled our public debt; the reforms that have reduced gdp by 25% and, while they would have strengthened the competitiveness of businesses, have led thousands to lock-out. even worse were the effects of the programmes on the weaker social groups. you have miserable these people and led them to the soup kitchens, to begging, to the atm queues and others sadly to suicide. today you are blackmailing the greek people. tomorrow who? at some point, you'll certainly try to blackmail yourself. the council and the commission must understand that. you and your policies are bankrupt, not greece. live away from the problems and needs of the common people. you will wake up abruptly, however, when the people themselves turn their backs on you and send you to the basket of political scum once and for all.
the commission madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs laura agea, on her report. i would point out that employment policy in the european union has completely failed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the memoranda have been a complete failure, especially in greece. we have over one and a half million unemployed. the unemployment rate is 25.4%, the female unemployment rate is 29.1%, the youth unemployment rate is 50.1%, the highest in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. despite the fact that we are facing a huge humanitarian crisis, the troika insists on reducing wages and pensions, increasing vat, maintaining hard taxes such as enfia, demanding the dismantling of the social security system. but the greek people reject the ultimatums and threats of the troika, which is why in the referendum the day before yesterday they said a resounding no to the troika and the memoranda.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. the report we are considering is cynical and indifferent. the countries with high unemployment need urgent measures that will also act as a stabilizing factor for the economy, and not just for greece, whose referendum was distorted by officials who tried to convince us that the citizens voted against europe. no, the greeks were not and are not against europe. but reading the employment report i felt sad because the recessionary policy has made greece a black hole in europe in terms of employment. we therefore urgently need to extend our emergency instruments such as the youth guarantee initiative with the recent corrections we made to increase the advance to 30% and especially in the member states with unemployment rates above the european average. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european social fund.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. stable work with collective agreements, a satisfactory wage and rights are sacrificed to the competitiveness of enterprises. shifting taxes from the monopolies onto the backs of the people to achieve bloody fiscal surpluses. reducing employer contributions and pensions, working until death with active ageing, reducing pensions to the poverty line, as well as adopting a minimum guaranteed income as a means of pressuring wages down. the report also mentions the abolition of unemployment benefits and their conversion into subsidies for new enterprises which are doomed to close down, and many other similar measures. this is the european union's path for all countries and for greece, which is now heading towards a third, worse, memorandum with a government of the left for the first time. it has been shown that the european union and the dictatorship of capital do not change; they are only overthrown by popular struggle.
madam president, i have listened very carefully to the whole debate and let me make a specific suggestion. i personally think we should offer developing countries clear, concrete programs and teach them how to collect taxes. i think that besides financial aid, providing know-how on how to look at the tax administration in a country, how to fight tax evasion, is a very important thing. we have similar programmes, like the european union, for countries that have partnership agreements with the european union, that want to join the european union, and we help and advise them on how justice should work, how the state should work. we should therefore be much more specific in this matter and come up with specific programmes to help these countries to be able to fight tax evasion. and let me make one more remark, the fight against tax evasion is not the fight against low taxes. third world countries should have the right to lower taxes and we should not deny them that right.
the commission madam president, massive tax evasion and avoidance are major challenges for governance in developing countries. the average tax-to-gdp ratio is very low, ranging from 10% to 20%. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this means the loss of huge tax revenues, which could be used to finance social actions of the state. the taxation of profits is therefore to be carried out where the profits are made. but developing countries are not going to get on the road to growth while they are burdened with the weight of their huge public debt. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the un guidelines on the implementation of the global compact for the reduction of poverty and social exclusion, which was adopted by the un general assembly in december 2014.
the commission i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. who and on what authority says that if the vote is no, the greeks should look for another currency? with what mentality, with what authority and with what kind of attitude do you interfere in the political affairs of my country? i would like you to address the german chancellery about what germany did to the greeks during world war ii: one million six thousand dead from losses, executions, disease and starvation; eleven and a half billion from the third reich's forced occupation loan, not counting interest; many thousands of billions from the war reparations which you refuse to include in the debt. so you have the nerve to address these proud people with suggestions ? how small you are, mr. schulz, compared to the greatness of a nation! you and mr. weber should contact the german chancellor about the debts. do you think the greek will be afraid and bow his head who did not bow four hundred years of slavery in the ottoman empire, to the turkish? the answer you got the day before yesterday: "no". the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. blessed greece can survive with or without the eurozone. the eurozone must either be unified or dissolved.
the commission mr president, mr prime minister, mr tsipras, we welcome you to the european parliament. mr weber, you have continued your anti-greek delirium today. so first tell mrs merkel to pay german war reparations and then talk about dignity. so stop pointing fingers at the greek people, who have been impoverished by merkel's austerity, your own policy. you know the memorandum failed in greece. it reduced gdp by 25%, it shot debt from 127% of gdp to 180% of gdp. greece has received 214 billion euros in loans in the last five years of the memorandum, and yet my country has 1.5 million unemployed and 40% of the population lives below the poverty line. so where did the money go, mr. weber? why don 't you say they went to save the german banks ? why are you hiding it? so make up your mind: the greek people are no longer tolerating merkel's austerity and memoranda, and your message was sent to them with the thunderous no you said last sunday in the referendum.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the greek government and the greek people do not want grexit at 80%. the commission and the council also categorically reject it, because it will cause enormous economic, social and geopolitical costs. the cost of this has been calculated and is enormous. so we need everyone to do, urgently, by sunday, whatever it takes, as mr draghi said about his own issues, to remove the word grexit from the european vocabulary, away from the mistakes of the past, which have caused enormous recession and unemployment and incredible social pain in my country greece, and the commission and the council and the greek government must try to do this. mr weber, stop insulting greece and the greeks! stop playing with matches in a fuel depot! mrs le pen and mr farage, stop playing the populist game behind the backs of the greek people to promote your far-right ambitions! we want greece not to be a debt colony but a respected member state of the eurozone and the european union. my country needs not to escape from europe but a program of strong changes for balanced public finances, a stronger economy, a reduction in unemployment, better administration rather than a client state, a fairer and more efficient tax system, a reduction in tax evasion, so that the rich and powerful finally pay, a breakdown of the privilege of the oligarchs that prevents both healthy competition and entrepreneurship; a reduction in bureaucracy and corruption. and to achieve these objectives of the greek government, mr juncker, the commission, mr tusk and the council must find another solution to the debt problem with european characteristics, and not pretend to ignore the reports and proposals of the international monetary fund. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the greek economy, including the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area, the creation of a european social area and the creation of a european social area. this is no time for mutual blame, this is no time for blame games. the cost of a grexit is prohibitive for everyone and not just for greece. it is not the time to throw a ball, mr juncker, into the other's court. enough of this tennis on the backs of greeks and greeks! the common interest is the solution with a greece that is a growing, respectable and equal member of the eurozone, not a debt colony. the eurozone must avoid a crippling, and i am sure that by sunday the forces of realism, optimism, development, democracy will win and the extreme forces of division and the far right and populism will be crushed.
s & d) and the madam president, in my country, despite the mistakes of our governments and the experiments of harsh austerity by the creditors, the greeks are still paying the bill with dignity, with sacrifices and respect for the struggles of our ancestors for the alliance of twenty-eight peoples of mutual compromise. prime minister of all greeks, your dual mandate is one: to change greece and europe but only from within, from the core of the eurozone. you have the support of all parties and the alibi to go beyond your party duty to the national interest, without procrastination and dangerous game theories. the european parliament has a duty to make a statement on the future of europe. with the €35 billion aid package of juncker and our allies for growth in greece within the euro, in the fight against austerity, so that we do not become isolated and fall from the imf's claws into the teeth of the drachma speculators. no one deserves to risk that. the european family, ladies and gentlemen, is showing solidarity, is forgiving and does not take revenge. she's protecting her kids. he protects them in the dark. alex, we have friends and competitors in here. only together can we stand up to our enemies, our common enemies for our common future, because greece is a democracy but it is also europe.
the commission madam president, both the european union and all its institutions and the syriza-anel government have tried to blackmail the greek people, who are already bankrupt, into accepting the new very harsh measures you are imposing on them, whether by means of a third memorandum or grexit, and they will still have to pay the heavy bill. the agreement of all the parties serving capital in greece aims to keep the people imprisoned in the misery of the long-term memoranda. no such authority has been given to you by the people. the kke condemns and opposes this new anti-people attack. in practice, it is becoming clear that there is no friendly negotiation or solution within the european union, within the capitalist development path, which is only based on the profitability of capital. the only way out is to organise, to fight for a break with the european union, with capital, because the people can really be in power, owners of the wealth they produce.
s&d). madam president, mr prime minister, it is very important that you are here today, near the end of the road. the road that began in january, when the greek people punished those who had mismanaged the crisis and squandered their four-year mandates; the road that must be completed by a viable agreement that will allow the country to be rebuilt within the union. we knew that on the road to the deal you would have forces opposing you who are probably using greece to send the message that austerity, even without growth, is the only way forward. we knew it, so you know it. now we're up to five. unfortunately, as president hollande has said, greece's remaining not only in the eurozone but possibly in the european union depends on the proposals you will table on thursday. and the voices calling for the punishment of our country have become much louder, largely on your own responsibility. the referendum at the time it was held, with the question it was asked and the rhetoric that accompanied it, was wrong and, instead of strengthening the negotiating effort, weakened it. at this moment i have nothing to do but appeal: ask for help from all european leaders who support the country's remaining in the union. get technical support. give it your best shot, because there's no tomorrow, and remember: the mandate of the greek people is to keep the country in the euro and the union. you promised you would do it before the referendum. it's not an excuse to take the back road. and be careful: if we end up with grexit and the misery of the people, history and the people will not judge that you made mistakes and omissions, but that you carried out your plan to drag the country into the adventure of isolation. deny them. for the first time, you will be judged not by your words but by the results of your actions.
s & d) and the mr president, the greatest challenge for europe is to convince its citizens that it cares about their well-being. today a key predictor of how a young person will develop in life is the financial performance of his parents. the crisis has made the right to progress seem hereditary. the popular demand in the last european elections is that europe should change, that the policies of harsh austerity should be pushed to the margins. but what is the popular mandate of the greek government? it is simply a fair deal within the euro zone, an agreement that will give rights to the greeks who are struggling to pay their taxes, the greeks who left their money in greek banks, those who are struggling to keep our country standing, and certainly not those who took the money abroad waiting for the collapse to buy us for free; not those who learned to speculate with public money and are afraid of european rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. respect the sacrifices of the weakest greek citizens over the last five years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but you too, mr prime minister, in the face of the big decisions you have to make, should reflect on the fact that today you were applauded by the worst enemies of the european vision and finally never forget that the euro for greece is not an economic option but a national option.
the commission mr president, we must all together prevent grexit, because a grexit means a 25% drop in gross domestic product, it means that the poor will become poorer in greece and the rich richer and it means that greece will return to the balkan chaos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. i understand that mr tsipras has a problem with reducing public spending, he has a problem with reducing the cost of the pension insurance system, but we cannot destroy the country by giving pensions to people who have worked for only fifteen years, accepting that already many categories of public servants can retire at fifty-two or continuing the appointments of relatives and friends to the bankrupt public service, a tradition that was not created by mr tsipras' party, it was created by my party, but we must finally leave it behind. if mr tsipras makes a turn towards economic realism and in favour of the european union, we will support him vigorously and i also think that mr juncker should support him with a bold investment programme, because for at least two to three years greece cannot operate according to market criteria, it cannot attract investment, because it has a huge problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. we will even protect him from the left wing of his party, who may object to this policy. if mr tsipras dares to do so, i think we will disappoint the false friends of greece who have come out today from the far right and give the right answer to the opponents of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the programme are used to the full. we must stop hiding behind the greek people.
the commission the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greece also urgently needs to restore its confidence in its relationship with its partners. you, mr. prime minister of greece, have no mandate to lead the country out of the eurozone. you don't have a warrant to break in. any delay in reaching agreement is driving the real economy deep into chaos. it adds to the suffering of the greek people. only here do farage, le pen and your leftist comrades in greece recommend that you return to the drachma. i hope you don't follow them. and you, mr president of the commission, as the first citizen-elect, have a duty to exhaust every opportunity to keep greece at home. mr. tsipras, i'm almost certain you won't be the fateful face of history. mr juncker, i am almost certain that you are the man who cannot conceive of europe without the greeks. exhaust the time until sunday.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i reject the insults against alexis tsipras, against the greek government, against the greek people. anyone who swears proves he has no arguments. but i warn all those who dream of driving greece out of europe that they are in vain. europe is, in its vocabulary, morphology and concepts, the birthplace of greece. we're not giving you europe. we're not giving you europe. (applause from the centre and the right) there is a difference of opinion. we're not gonna solve this in heat. it takes time to get to grips with the solution. let us, we ask, give us a time frame where we will not accept loans, we will not accept to repay loans. we are of course accepting mr juncker's proposals to help us - that is another matter - and i expect him to do so and we are asking for justice. let justice prevail. we fought for justice, and we fight for justice here. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i have asked for the floor in writing long before the procedure has begun. i realize that the choice is made in a certain way. please very much, i would know this way. why didn't you give me the floor?
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the 60% who voted no in the referendum on 5 july in greece is in no way connected with the desire of the overwhelming majority of the greek people to remain in the euro and the eu. in all the polls asking whether greece should stay in the euro, the greeks voted yes with a dizzying 75-80%. the greek prime minister, a. tsipras, deceived the greek people by calling a referendum with a false document and a misleading question, proposing no instead of yes, while in an unprecedented period of 5 days for democratic data, the citizens were not properly informed and voted without understanding the stakes. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the fact that he was forced to remove the minister of finance and convene a council of political leaders shows the difficult position he found himself in. the greek government must rise to the occasion and finally make substantive proposals to find an agreement that will give greece a future, a future for future generations. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. dozens of people have lost their lives. the warring parties and accomplices of the islamic caliphate terrorists are bringing terror into our homelands too. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. golden dawn has a clear stance against terrorism. we must find a way to shield ourselves from the invaders. we must give a strong response to these cowardly acts. i can and i have the right to speak in anger and pain. a year and a half ago, when cowardly and dishonest leftist terrorists murdered my son, giorgos fudouli, and his friend, manolis kapelloni, two young boys, in front of our offices, there was no reaction from anyone who is so sensitive today. i am asking you again today to support the declaration of 1 november as a european day against terrorism. i would like parliament to show the same sensitivity to all terrorist attacks, wherever they come from. no one in the political system at the time condemned the attacks. nobody cared about finding the killers. some people didn't get involved because it was politically expedient. that's something that makes me wonder: are we better than the terrorists, or are we just hiding behind a false facade?
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu support to tunisia (2015/2765 ((rsp))
the commission the european union is also concerned about the situation in tunisia, which is a country which has been suffering from a serious economic crisis. but at the same time we have had the decision to declare a state of emergency in tunisia, which is creating particular problems for the democratic process in that country. the european union is convinced that it must have a strategy to counter jihadist terrorism, and the first intervention the european union must make is in the economic development of tunisia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main issue is therefore the cancellation of tunisia's external debt to the imf, france, italy and the other european countries.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the future eu-cuba relations (2015/2616 ((rsp))
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the present critical situation, where the voices of the cold war are growing louder, the attempt to develop relations with cuba further is a response to those who continue to propose a futile policy of intervention, blockade and embargo, and it is particularly important that a small country which has been under the pressure of a murderous embargo for over sixty years should approach this debate on an equal footing. the extensive discussion on greece this morning clearly showed the real problem facing the peoples of europe: the weakening and continuing withdrawal of the social state and the devaluation of fundamental assets under the predatory attack of the financial system. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. a country that spends 13% of its gdp providing universal public free education with impressive scientific results for the international community. a country with the best indicators in all levels of health care, with free universal access and a pioneer in both prevention and continuous research in the pharmaceutical and medical fields. i support with all my strength the further development of relations with cuba with full respect for a people who, even under the most difficult circumstances, have not for a moment abandoned their dignity and their right to decide for themselves about their lives and their country. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr henkel, that's not my finding. i think the whole world recognizes that for sixty years in a row cuba has been strangled, as i remind you, economically, morally, socially and another country, and another small homeland, gaza in palestine. exactly the same thing is happening right now. i think it is very positive that all this has been recognised, that all this is being overcome and that at this moment there is another road for cuba, a road that will lead it back to growth. i would say that what happened was the greatest crime that could have been committed against humanity in a country like cuba.
the commission mr president, deepening the european union's relations with latin america must be a strategic choice for the union in the modern multipolar world we live in. in this context, the restoration of relations between the european union and cuba is an important development, since the union could, through its foreign policy, take an independent position vis-à-vis that of the united states of america. the restoration of us-cuban relations will certainly help to strengthen cuba's relations with the western world. we consider the eu-cuba dialogue on human rights to be important, but it should not be a pretext for indirect intervention by the european union in cuba's internal affairs. we consider it important to improve economic relations between the european union and cuba, but this approach should be based on the principle of mutual benefit and respect for the sovereignty of the states. the european union must also stop looking at the exploitation of cuba's resources as a signpost.
the commission mr president, the situation in yemen remains volatile and dangerous, with the country sinking into chaos. mr commissioner, if you look at the press over the last six months, the record in yemen is as follows: armed conflict, bloodshed, military intervention by saudi arabia, naval blockade, expulsion of un personnel and foreign diplomats for security reasons, persecution on the grounds of religious belief, a huge humanitarian crisis, hunger, malnutrition, thousands of refugees fleeing for their lives and going to neighbouring areas. at the same time, they are coming together because they want to get to europe. even in greece we now have refugees from yemen. at the same time, the jihadists are taking advantage of this situation. the question, therefore, commissioner, is what the european union is doing. as i said yesterday in another speech, closer cooperation with international organisations such as the osce and the un could help bring order to yemen. he needs a political solution for yemen.
the commission madam president, serious human rights violations are now included among the potential threats to international law, peace and security. in this context, some states export policy, taking advantage of human rights violations in third countries. they are interfering in the internal affairs of these countries. other countries are relying on self-proclaimed human rights defenders to build their own image. modern challenges in the field of human rights include actions to protect vulnerable groups such as children, women, the disabled, refugees and minorities. the european union must have a serious presence in the field of human rights. the european union must not, however, be allowed to pursue an all-out policy in its external relations, turning a blind eye to flagrant human rights violations, as is the case in turkey. on the other hand, it should use human rights violations to explain that they must stop. the european union itself must also respect human rights in its external action.
the commission mr president, the recent challenges in the middle east and north africa have caused great concern in the western world. the increase in tensions in the region is retarding the economic and social development of the peoples of the region and is creating massive waves of refugees, who are now flooding greece and italy. following the january 2015 terrorist attacks in paris, the fight against jihadists must be effective and based on the long-term support of democracy and economic development of countries. the european union must also isolate those countries which support the jihadists in syria, egypt and libya. during the recent election season in turkey, the opposition revealed turkey's cooperation with jihadists in syria. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations for the accession of the republic of turkey to the european union, and has been involved in the negotiations for the accession of the republic of turkey to the european union. what measures does the commission intend to take in this respect, mr hahn?
the commission mr president, because of their great geopolitical and geostrategic importance, what is happening in the middle east and north africa directly affects world peace and political stability and of course affects the european union. what is happening in these areas now is: civil strife, lack of democracy, political instability, economic and humanitarian crisis, increased terrorist activity and a large flow of illegal migrants towards greece and italy. the european union has been pursuing a policy which has not served its interests but has been identified with the policy of the united states. so we have to change policy. we must demand that the governments of the countries administer democratically; we must support all those countries that are fighting terrorism (tunisia, egypt) but we must also make peace with syria, because it too is fighting isis. we must also prevent the free movement of terrorists and of european citizens fighting alongside them, and finally we must stop the flow of illegal immigrants. the european union must show its determination here, not raise its voice and wave its hand to greece and the greek people, because they have once again demonstrated their traditional dignity and pride.
the commission mr president, the european neighbourhood policy is part of the european union's external policy and must therefore be coherent. this applies to the eastern european neighbourhood policy and the south. at the same time, it should be based on specific principles such as respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. i would like to focus a little on the union for the mediterranean, because at the moment, as we said in the previous debate, there is a huge instability. huge waves of refugees, thousands of refugees, are now coming to greece and italy. there should be a very specific policy to deal with this phenomenon. the main thing is to have stability and peace in the region. secondly, we must create an area of economic development, investments and jobs, especially for the younger generation in these regions; we must have cultural cooperation and dialogue between religions. the european union must be able to take action to help the countries of the south, and we must be able to do so in a way that is consistent with the principles of the european union.
the commission madam president, days of remembrance such as srebrenica are meant to remind and teach younger generations of the extent of human brutality fuelled mainly by extremism, to set an example and act as a deterrent. but unfortunately such heinous crimes are being committed today by the murderous jihadists of al qaeda, boko haram and the islamic state. but srebrenica was not an accident. it was the result of the blatant intervention of the americans and germans, who wanted the disintegration of a united yugoslavia for their own geopolitical ends. it was a criminal attack against a sovereign state made up of slavic ethnicities. the bad results of this policy are still visible today: in bosnia-herzegovina, three different ethnic groups hate each other, in kosovo, where there has been a forced expulsion of serbs and illegal settlement by albanians, in fyrom, a state of mixed ethnicities with dreams of stealing the greek name of macedonia. memorial day is history. history must not be written off or falsified.
the commission madam president, it is important that the european union has the legal means to deal quickly with accidents that may occur with nuclear weapons, such as those at chernobyl or fukushima. the question is who will take the decisions, and i think that the role of the european parliament in this regard should be important and decisive. secondly, the proposal that the commission is bringing here raises a lot of concerns. it is based on a report drawn up in 1998 and takes into account the fact that we will have a possible accident thousands of kilometres from the centre of the european union. but here, around strasbourg and around brussels, there are too many nuclear power stations. what if we have an accident? what if we have an accident in coslodui? what if we have an accident at the new factory they want to build in turkey, on the border with greece? so the terms and conditions you're considering are wrong. the limits must be set very low. the limits you set are too high and have nothing to do with reality. the fact that you are setting limits and saying that only 10% of food and 1% of drinking water will be affected is wrong. turn those boundaries down.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the debate on the protection of authors' rights in the information society is a reminder of the need to achieve two objectives at the same time: on the one hand to protect authors and their intellectual and property rights, that is to say, in effect, to protect the renewal of our common cultural heritage over time, and on the other to create new opportunities for access to artistic and intellectual creation. we have two challenges to face: first, new technologies, which create new creative possibilities but also many risks to the rights of creators. secondly, the economic crisis and austerity, which are driving our people away from art and letters and depriving intellectual people of the resources necessary to create. it is therefore necessary not only to regulate the protection of authors' rights but above all to guarantee the continuity and the plurality of european culture.
the commission madam president, the charter of fundamental rights is known to protect freedom of expression and information. at the same time it protects the freedom of art, science and therefore the right to intellectual property. so we have to find a way to strike a delicate balance between the rights of the author and the rights of the consumer, and that is the discussion we are having today. the first question to be asked is what is the appropriate level to regulate these matters. is it the level of the european union? is it the level of the member states? how is the principle of subsidiarity formed? what measures should we take? the next issue is about the internet itself, freedom on the internet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's cultural heritage is protected. if they don't have the incentive to protect themselves, it's obvious that they're not going to produce work, we're not going to have the support of the digital economy, of technologies, of information and innovation. so we have to find solutions to all these issues.
the commission madam president, i would like to raise three points. first of all, the establishment of the european democracy fund is an important activity because it can support fundamental rights and other actions through the fund's actions; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the fund, and that the fund should be used as a tool for policy-making and intervention in the internal affairs of other states, as this would have the opposite effect. and the third: i am surprised that one hundred and eighty-six actions were taken by this fund and none of these actions dealt with the gross violation of human rights in the countries of the memorandum. we have a special report from our parliament, in march 2013, which says that the troika is violating human rights in greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus. i haven't seen a fund activity for this! let us restore the functioning of democratic rights in the european union and we shall be happy to deal with similar issues in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as a whole because ttip is the trojan horse that will destroy europe's economy and especially agricultural production and exports. competition with us products, in the event of a trade link, would not only be fierce but would disrupt the already struggling eu economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report as a whole because ttip is the trojan horse that will destroy europe's economy and especially agricultural production and exports. competition with us products, in the event of a trade link, would not only be fierce but would disrupt the already struggling eu economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because the restrictions we are fighting to maintain concern the most important social issues and some of the most important environmental rules, such as labour rights, safe food rules, regulations on the use of chemicals and laws on the protection of personal data.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/7/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group voted against the report by the committee on international trade because it advocates the creation of ttip. the european parliament is urging the signing of the agreement to recover the profits of european monopolies. the committee on budgets did not take part in the vote on the amendments concerning various aspects of the agreement under negotiation, because it refuses to participate in the attempt to legitimize it in the public mind, under the illusion that it can be allegedly changed or corrected. the amendments and the parties of the eu's euro-path which table them express the special interests of sections of capital which seek to strengthen their negotiating positions in international competition. the tip is the economic nato, and therefore it cannot be improved or corrected. the position of the kke is clear. the ttp is by nature and character deeply anti-people. the people must reject it and the exploitative system it serves. by their struggle to defeat it, to free themselves from the imperialist wolf alliances, opening their own path of development with their own power that will have the satisfaction of the people's needs at its center.
in writing. ‒ ttip is the trojan horse that will destroy europe's economy and, above all, agricultural production and exports. competition with us products, in the event of a trade link, would not only be fierce but would disrupt the already struggling eu economy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group voted against the report by the committee on international trade because it advocates the creation of ttip. the european parliament is urging the signing of the agreement to recover the profits of european monopolies. the committee on budgets did not take part in the vote on the amendments concerning various aspects of the agreement under negotiation, because it refuses to participate in the attempt to legitimize it in the public mind, under the illusion that it can be allegedly changed or corrected. the amendments and the parties of the eu's euro-path which table them express the special interests of sections of capital which seek to strengthen their negotiating positions in international competition. the tip is the economic nato, and therefore it cannot be improved or corrected. the position of the kke is clear. the ttp is by nature and character deeply anti-people. the people must reject it and the exploitative system it serves. by their struggle to defeat it, to free themselves from the imperialist wolf alliances, opening their own path of development with their own power that will have at its center the satisfaction of the people's needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft as we are not given the possibility to amend the association agreement with skopje.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the draft, as we are not given the possibility to amend the association agreement with skopje.
in writing. – despite the fact it is a technical report, abstaining on the recommendation to give consent was my decision. in my view, this position makes it possible to express criticism towards the eu-fyrom stabilisation and association agreement (creation of a free trade area and economic and political reforms) without opposing a technical adjustment due to the eu accession of croatia.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing and provisional application of a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, because skopje continues its provocative attitude towards greece, with skopje's altruism being expressed by falsifying history and stealing our macedonia's name. greece also does not recognize the skopje formation. the greek people will not accept that the name of our macedonia is being stolen from skopje. the name of skopje is also not to be given a compound name with any geographical designation. i am absolutely opposed to any future accession of skopje to the european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are not given the opportunity to amend the association agreement with skopje.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the draft as it does not give us the possibility to amend the association agreement with serbia.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of serbia (protocol to take account of croatia's accession to the eu), as we are not given the possibility to amend the association agreement with serbia.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, because the report is sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are not given the opportunity to amend the association agreement with serbia.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because the cooperation agreement in question envisages the exploitation of the contracting party, in this case the republic of india.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european community and the government of the republic of india, as this cooperation agreement envisages the exploitation of the contracting party, in this case the republic of india.
in writing. – the agreement for scientific cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india has been initially signed in november 2001 for a period of five years. the possibility of renewals by mutual agreement has been foreseen, with the latest renewal ending on the 17 may 2015. i have voted in favour of the report giving my consent to the renewal of the agreement for a third term so as to ensure the smooth continuation of the aforementioned cooperation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, because this recommendation is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ this cooperation agreement provides for the exploitation of the counterparty, in this case the republic of india.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation as the eu must give priority to meeting the needs of the national economies of its member states before undertaking cooperation actions with third countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu must give priority to meeting the needs of its member states' national economies before undertaking cooperation actions with third countries.
in writing. – since this a procedural report that aims to establish the scientific and technical cooperation of the eu with the faroe islands and define the elements of the cooperation i have voted in favour, in order to facilitate the conclusion of the agreement and the participation of faroe islands to horizon 2020 as an associated country.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands linking the faroe islands to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation, because this recommendation is sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu must give priority to meeting the needs of its member states' national economies before undertaking cooperation actions with third countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the proposal because, although it brings about crucial changes to the european commission's proposal, it presents serious legislative gaps, while at the same time the interest of companies remains the guiding principle for decision-making.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the proposal to amend directive 2007/36/ec as regards the encouragement of long-term active participation of shareholders and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance statement, as, although it brings about key changes to the above proposal of the european commission, it presents serious legislative gaps, while at the same time the interest of companies remains the basis for decision-making.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the encouragement of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance statement, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/7/2015.
in writing. ‒ the proposal, while bringing about key changes to the european commission's proposal, presents serious legislative gaps, while at the same time the interests of companies remain the guiding principle for decision-making.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report, which, as above, concerns the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, as it does not create a structured and solid environmental protection network from this activity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to this report on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, because it does not create a coherent and solid environmental protection network for this activity.
in writing. – the market stability reserve is considered to be a correction mechanism to the emissions trading system (ets) with regard to the surplus of allowances. the surplus is an obstacle to a balanced carbon market functioning undermining thus investment in low carbon technologies. as the main aim of the ets directive is to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner, it should be further supported. the report unfortunately does not provide a clear and detailed framework for longer term solutions, however i have voted in favour with a view of supporting the ets implementation as a tool for avoidance of a further increase of co2 emissions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading and amending directive 2003/87/ec for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/7/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report is incomplete as regards the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. it does not create a coherent and solid environmental protection network from this activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because, although it brings about key reforms in the employment sector of seafarers, it presents legislative gaps.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on seafarers amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec, because it ensures adequate protection for workers, the right to safe work and the improvement of working conditions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on seafarers amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec, because the report aims to improve working conditions for seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, while taking into account the specific characteristics of this sector of activity, and to correct a situation of discrimination against seafarers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the directives to which the seamen are affiliated are anti-working-class abortifacients which essentially serve the interests of the employer. the regime they seek to include the shipowners in is nothing other than that characterized by: mass layoffs, manipulation and integration of workers with false participation in councils and consultations with the capitalists on how much they will lose, no protection of the rights of the shipowners in the event of sales of shipowners' ships. the shipowners not only have no interest in being included in such directives but, on the contrary, are reduced in their requirements and needs by means of regulations which actually intensify and prolong their exploitation by the shipping capital. the kke supports the demands and the struggle of the class shipping movement for full, stable work with rights for all, compensation for losses, collective labour agreements that respond to modern needs, exclusively public, universal social security, health and welfare, effective protection of the unemployed, abolition of the exceptions of shipping workers from the labour legislation. the satisfaction of the workers' and people's needs requires a struggle against shipping capital, monopolies, the eu and all imperialist wolf alliances, so that the ships and the wealth produced by the workers become the property of the people, with the working people in power.
in writing. ‒ the report, while bringing about key reforms in the employment sector of seafarers, presents legislative gaps.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the directives to which the seamen are affiliated are anti-working-class abortifacients which essentially serve the interests of the employer. the regime they seek to include the shipowners is nothing but one characterized by mass layoffs, manipulation and integration of workers with false participation in councils and consultations with the capitalists on how much they will lose, no protection of the rights of the shipowners in the event of the shipowners' ships being sold. the shipowners not only have no interest in being included in such directives, but on the contrary are reduced in their requirements and needs by regulations which actually intensify and prolong their exploitation by the shipping capital. the kke supports the demands and the struggle of the class shipping movement for full, stable work with rights for all, compensation for losses, collective labour agreements that respond to modern needs, exclusively public, universal social security, health and welfare, effective protection of the unemployed, abolition of the exceptions of shipping workers from the labour legislation. the satisfaction of the workers' and people's needs requires a struggle against shipping capital, monopolies, the eu and all imperialist wolf alliances, so that the ships and the wealth produced by the workers become the property of the people, with the working people in power.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation as the union's primary objective should be to recover the national economies of the weak member states in particular. fusion agreements are moving in the right direction but do not need immediate mobilisation
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the union's primary objective should be to rebuild the national economies, especially those of the weak member states. the agreements on fusion are moving in the right direction but do not need to be mobilised immediately. for the above reasons, i am voting against the recommendation on scientific and technological cooperation with switzerland: horizon 2020 and iter activities.
in writing. – i have voted against this report as it is a working framework for the participation of switzerland in iter and nuclear research, the implementation of which should not be supported in any circumstance.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, linking the swiss confederation to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme and to the european atomic energy community research and training programme, which complements horizon 2020, and regulating the swiss confederation's participation in the activities carried out by the cohesion for energy enterprise, as it is sufficiently advanced.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the union's primary objective should be to revive the national economies, especially of the weak member states. the agreements on fusion are moving in the right direction but do not need to be mobilised immediately.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because, although it has many positive elements and steps in the right direction, it cannot unfortunately escape the austerity policies and logic that created the problem in the first place.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because, although this report has many positive elements and steps in the right direction, it cannot unfortunately escape the context of the austerity policies and the logic that created the problem in the first place.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 7 july 2015 and also because merkel's austerity has filled greece with armies of unemployed, with millions of poor, with an unemployment rate of 25.1% and a youth unemployment rate of 50.1%. i would like to point out, however, that i have reservations about certain points in the report, and i also oppose the report's references to active ageing.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report has many positive elements and steps in the right direction. unfortunately, it is not outside the framework of the austerity policies and the logic that created the problem in the first place.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced, and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed. this is why i do not support the launch of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application from finland - egf/2015/001 fi/broadcom).
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/001 fi/broadcom from finland), because the finnish authorities decided to start providing the personalised services to the affected workers on 11 august 2014, well before the decision, and even before the submission of the application for the granting of ec support for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the union's budget should aim first and foremost to solve the problems of its member states, which are plagued by poverty and unemployment, before embarking on poorly subsidised solidarity programmes towards third countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the union's budget should aim first and foremost to solve the problems of its member states suffering from poverty and unemployment before embarking on loosely subsidised solidarity programmes towards third countries. i do not agree with the mandate for the tripartite dialogue on the draft budget for 2016, therefore my vote is in the negative.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the mandate for the tripartite dialogue on the draft budget for 2016, as despite the improvements incorporated the spirit of the text does not change significantly. austerity and neoliberal policies are at the heart of the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget for 2016 for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 7 july 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the union's budget should aim first and foremost to solve the problems of its member states suffering from poverty and unemployment, before embarking on weakly subsidised solidarity programmes towards third countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against because while green growth can indeed boost the economy, the report's approach nevertheless follows the logic of previous strategies that have already failed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the green jobs initiative, although green growth can indeed boost the economy, the report's approach follows the logic of previous strategies that have already failed.
in writing. – as ‘green economy’ is measured to be able to deliver 20 million jobs, the promotion of the green employment initiative is very important, especially in countries where unemployment is on the rise. the report emphasises some elements in relation to job potential like environmental taxation, social partnership for transition, greening workplaces and energy efficiency, among others. i have voted in favour, hoping that the report is another milestone to a paradigm shift of green job creation in modern economies.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the 'green jobs initiative: harnessing the potential of the green economy for job creation', for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7 july 2015.
in writing. ‒ while green growth can boost the economy, the report's approach follows the logic of previous strategies that have already failed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it calls on the member states to reach an agreement quickly on a common consolidated corporate tax base.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ since this report calls on the member states to reach an agreement quickly on a common consolidated corporate tax base, which i do not agree with, i am voting against.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax avoidance and tax evasion as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries because i believe that cohesion policy, rigorous country-by-country scrutiny and an integrated action plan can uproot tax havens, which undermine the impartiality of the tax system.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on tax avoidance and tax evasion as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries, for the reasons i outlined in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/7/2015, and also because the un resolution of september 2014 on the cancellation of the sovereign debt of developing countries should be implemented immediately.
in writing. ‒ calls on the member states to reach agreement quickly on a common consolidated corporate tax base.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ saving resources is of course extremely important, but once again the report approach fails to move away from reform and memorandum policies which are clearly leading nowhere.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on resource efficiency: towards a circular economy. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the european union's financial instruments are used to the full.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on resource efficiency: i think that the linear model based on the triangle of take-make-throw-away is now outdated. the transition to a circular economy will be resource-efficient for member states, will boost recycling, create new jobs and reduce expensive and scarce resources.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'resource efficiency: towards a circular economy' for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 6 july 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the saving of resources is of course extremely important, but once again the report's approach fails to move away from reform and memorandum policies that are not leading anywhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the nuclear risk is always present and the union must be prepared as well as possible to mitigate the effects of a possible and immediate future accident.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on maximum permitted levels of radioactivity due to a nuclear accident, because nuclear risk is always present and the union must be prepared as much as possible to mitigate the effects of a possible and imminent future accident.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radiation in food and feed following a nuclear accident or in the event of a radiological emergency, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 july 2015.
in writing. ‒ the nuclear threat is a permanent one and the union must be prepared as far as possible to mitigate the effects of a possible and immediate future accident.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against because it proposes the european fund for strategic investments as a regulatory agent, whose role i disagree with.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on building a capital markets union because it sets up the european fund for strategic investments as a regulatory agent, a role i do not agree with.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the construction of a capital markets union because the motion for a resolution is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it proposes the european fund for strategic investments as a regulatory agent, whose role we do not agree with.
in writing. ‒ intervention in the internal affairs of membership cards will be carried out under the pretext of security
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the reports on the european agenda on security, because under the pretext of security, interference in the internal affairs of the member states will be carried out.
ecr), in writing. ‒ regarding the motion for a resolution on the european agenda on security, i stand by the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 7 july 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ intervention in the internal affairs of the member states will be carried out under the pretext of security.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the union is once again pretending to be a self-proclaimed defender of the law, when in reality it is simply trying to influence the course of events in its own interest. moreover, its stance is one-sided and hypocritical as, while ostensibly condemning saudi intervention, it still considers hadi, who has fled to saudi arabia and called for airstrikes against his homeland, as the legitimate president of yemen.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the reports on the situation in yemen because the union is once again pretending to be a self-proclaimed defender of the rule of law, when in reality it is simply trying to influence the course of events in its own interest. moreover, its stance is one-sided and hypocritical, as while ostensibly condemning saudi intervention, it still considers hadi, who has fled to saudi arabia and called for airstrikes against his homeland, as the legitimate president of yemen.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in yemen for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 8 july 2015.
in writing. ‒ the union is once again pretending to be a self-proclaimed defender of the rule of law, when in reality it is simply trying to influence the course of events in its own interest. moreover, its stance is one-sided and hypocritical, as while ostensibly condemning saudi intervention, it still considers hadi, who has fled to saudi arabia and called for airstrikes against his homeland, as the legitimate president of yemen.
in writing. ‒ political stability in the region cannot be achieved by pursuing the economic interests of the powerful.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability, as political stability in the region cannot be achieved by the economic interests of the powerful.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 july 2015.
in writing. ‒ political stability in the region cannot be achieved by pursuing the economic interests of the powerful.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because its text stresses the importance of strengthening the political cooperation of the member states within the framework of the eea, with the consequent abolition of sovereign rights.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy, as it stresses the importance of strengthening political cooperation between member states in the framework of the enp, with the consequent abolition of sovereign rights.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) because, while it creates multi-level and strong interdependent relations between the eu and neighbouring countries, neighbouring countries are nevertheless treated more as energy suppliers than as real partners. moreover, limited financial aid and support for a liberal agenda create a precarious relationship between the eu and enlargement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 july 2015.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the importance of strengthening member states' political cooperation in the framework of the epc, with the consequent abolition of sovereign rights.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted against the report because it affects, among other things, freedom of the press, which is fully recognised and protected by law in many eu member states. it is the inherent right that allows all citizens to acquire and share photographs, videos or other images of buildings, sculptures and other artistic works permanently in public spaces.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights, as it affects, among other things, the freedom of the press, which is fully recognised and protected by law in a number of eu member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the report on the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9/7/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report also targets freedom of panorama, which is fully recognised and protected by law in a number of eu member states. it is the inherent right that allows all citizens to acquire and share photographs, videos or other images of buildings, sculptures and other artistic works that are permanently in public places.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because it seeks to increase funding for the european democracy fund (edf).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on the evaluation of the activities of the european democracy fund (edf), as it attempts to increase the funding of the edf.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i have strong reservations about the report on the new eu approach to human rights and democracy evaluation of the activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed) since its creation for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9/7/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report seeks to increase the funding of the european democracy fund (edf) since its creation; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint motion for a resolution because it attempts to involve the eu in an unacceptable way in the internal governance of a country which is not a member state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi, as it attempts to involve the eu in an unacceptable way in the internal governance of a country which is not a member state.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the report attempts to involve the eu in an unacceptable manner in the internal governance of a country which is not a member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the resolution is one-sided, condemning the serbs without any reference to the crimes of the other parties and without also mentioning the role of various european states in the yugoslav civil war, especially germany. also, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia has "strangely" only convicted serbs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against because the resolution is one-sided; it condemns the serbs, without any reference to the crimes of the other parties and without mentioning the role of various european states in the yugoslav civil war, especially germany. also, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia has "strangely" only convicted serbs.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ references to memory and honour in the past are necessary to ensure that the events that took place in srebrenica will never be raised again. but what is now important is the reference to the future. the country's next steps depend on the process of reconciliation between the nationalities and on the collective work on the road to integration into the european family.
in writing. ‒ i honour the memory of all the victims and strongly condemn the genocide in srebrenica. in addition, i call for the development of educational and cultural programmes that promote understanding of the causes of such atrocities and raise awareness of the need to cultivate peace and promote human rights.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is one-sided, condemning the serbs without any reference to the crimes of the other sides and without mentioning the role of various european states in the yugoslav civil war, especially germany. also, the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia has "strangely" only convicted serbs.
madam president, the protection of species threatened with extinction by poaching, such as whales and seals, must be a key priority for the european union. trade in seal products has led to the extinction of the species and should therefore be prohibited. that must be the rule. the only exception we could accept is the hunting traditionally practised in greenland by the inuit community. but here too we must set strict conditions. firstly, hunting must be done in a traditional way by the community; secondly, seal hunting must contribute to the survival of the inuit community; thirdly, hunting must not be done for commercial purposes; and fourthly, hunting must be done in a way that reduces the pain and suffering of the animals being hunted. under these conditions, there can be effective protection of the seal worldwide and, at the same time, the conditions for the survival and self-determination of the inuit community can be created, as seal hunting is a source of life and part of the cultural tradition for these inhabitants of west greenland. thank you, sir.
, on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, all european citizens and all inhabitants of europe are undoubtedly entitled to enjoy fundamental rights. i believe that fundamental rights should not be a subject of debate between political groups, because this could lead to the wrong conclusion, namely that there are sensitivities of many speeds in the european union. there are, however, elements of contradiction, arising from different perspectives and from different positions, which may be incorporated into the reports, so that they appear to serve specific purposes. the report by mrs ferrara is a source of fruitful and constructive debate, but it can certainly be evaluated from different angles. the european people's party has an alternative motion for a resolution, but we believe that, despite our differences, we are pursuing the same objective. we are of the opinion that there is no need for new mechanisms. the existing ones are adequate and can ensure the supervision of those member states where violations of fundamental rights are observed. we also support what the vice-president, mr timmermans, has repeatedly said, that in cases of infringements a mechanism of constructive dialogue between the commission and the member states must be activated immediately and these issues addressed. we also argue in our report that public security must be strengthened, but in a way that protects fundamental rights, because otherwise there is a risk of committing criminal offences at a time when there is a real need for protection and protection against terrorism and other phenomena that can affect the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in our report we fully record all the fundamental values and we recognise the respect required of all of us.
mr president, in the economic crisis we are experiencing, memoranda and austerity policies are increasing poverty and unemployment and are leading to a violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union, and above all their social rights. the memorandum measures, particularly in greece, have deprived the impoverished greek people of the right to access basic public goods such as health, education and social security. the european union, and in particular the commission, must therefore ensure that the charter of fundamental rights is respected in greece too. but that's not happening. in fact, in reply to a question i put to the commission about the troika's violation of the european social charter in greece, mr moscovici told me that the european social charter is not binding under union law and therefore does not impose any legal obligations on the union and its member states within the framework of the european union's legal order. so in this case, the european commission is blaming its own hands for the violation of the charter of social rights in greece, even though it is the same member of the troika that has imposed these measures on greece? i would like an answer to this question because it is very serious. the commission's response to a question from a member of the european parliament is that the european social charter is not binding.
i think that the procedure for hearing commissioners is a very important procedure because it is the way in which democratic control is established. the european parliament can really exercise its rights and give a vote of confidence, when necessary, to the commission itself. of course, the process must be more open to society itself. the citizens must be able to participate. i had the opportunity, like you, last year to take part in this process. we have received many e-mails from citizens asking questions about various commissioner candidates. i think that as members of parliament we should have a greater role and we should have more time to ask questions. we can't leave the whole game to the coordinators. finally, i would like to raise a key point and stress that the commission must be a truly independent institution - as we want it to be - and not merely serve the troika. this is very important, mr timmermans.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in cereals, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the milk and milk products, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action to ensure that the quality of the milk is not affected. the major problems of agriculture must be solved. in my country, greece, the greek farmers who have been impoverished by the memorandum are unable to cope financially, as they were tested last year by the disasters that have hit production in my country. at the same time, the tax raid which they have suffered and continue to suffer at the behest of the troika has been extended illegally to the community aid they receive. in the last five years, greek farmers' income has fallen by 1.5 billion euros while taxes have increased by 150%. at the same time, the crisis in agriculture caused by the russian embargo has devastated greek farmers financially. for these reasons, there must be an immediate increase in aid to the greek farmers impoverished by the memoranda.
madam president, allow me on behalf of the s&d group to thank our colleague angelika niebler for her great report on family businesses, which are an important and vital element in the functioning of the european economy, especially in the most remote and peripheral areas of the eu. for the s&d group it is particularly important that we stress with this report the significance of size when we are talking about family businesses, and we would like to underscore the social role that family businesses play in the european economy – on the path to recovery of course – and also the necessary standards for those working in family businesses, the quality of jobs and the need for everyone to have social insurance and a pension plan. we also want to ensure that we keep the references in this report to the balance between genders, the importance of smoothing transfers of ownership and management from generation to generation, and the tax burden. last but not least, we expect the commission to take the initiative to strengthen the framework in which family businesses operate in the eu today, and to improve their access to information, educational programmes and financial resources.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs niebler, for her excellent report. europe’s family businesses are important economic actors and deserve attention. across europe, about 70% of enterprises are family businesses and they account for between 40% and 50% of employment. the most effective way to help family businesses is to address their problems in existing smes or industry-related policies such as the creation of a supportive business environment or participation in the various european union funding programmes. family businesses need a level playing field when the implementation of national or eu policies has an impact on them. a number of points mentioned in the report have, to a large extent, already been addressed by the commission, for example the contact points, the collection of statistical data and the need for vocational training for younger family members. however, we are ready to look at these issues with you again and, if needed, to take further steps to improve the situation. there are also a number of important problems that are family-business specific and need special attention, like the smooth transfer of business to the next generation and its fiscal consequences. as you know, taxation is a sole competence of member states, so we have pointed out the issue of the family business to them, asking them for more growth—friendly tax policies at national level. to make governments more sensitive to the issue of family businesses, we took action to make more visible the economic importance of the sector. in many member states, unfortunately, there is no statistical information. for this reason, we are financing a number of national statistical offices to collect data on family businesses in order to get a clearer picture on them. the results will be known in about two years’ time. we are also running a project on identifying good practices and useful tools in preparing on-time transfer of businesses because, as i said, the transfer of businesses is a problem for many families. in your report, you also referred to the need to offer young family members entrepreneurship education and training. i would like to mention that there are various programmes, like erasmus for young entrepreneurs, from which all younger members of the family business can benefit if they envision entrepreneurship as an attractive and realistic career option. concerning the role of women in family businesses, we promote and support women entrepreneurship in europe with concrete actions, providing encouragement, advice and support to women entrepreneurs. such measures include the european network of female entrepreneurship ambassadors, the european network of mentors for women entrepreneurs and, as from 2016 onwards, the online e-platform for women entrepreneurs. i hope we can continue our dialogue to improve the position of family businesses in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the blue economy covers a very wide range of activities: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, tourism, shipping and cruises. it should be based mainly on innovation and new technologies. this means support for small and mediumsized enterprises, but also support for quality itself. it means support for renewable energy sources and forms of local cooperation. it means trying to create new jobs and develop new products. it means that we must have the support of economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union. this means that there is more cooperation between the regions themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, on the occasion of the debate on the integrated approach to the cultural heritage of europe, i would like to remind the house once again that during the second world war, the nazi occupation troops looted the archaeological treasures of my homeland, greece. in fact, the list of stolen archaeological treasures is contained both in the special volume published in 1946 by the greek ministry of education and in the corresponding special report prepared by the british ministry of war. in accordance with directive 93/7/eec on the return of stolen archaeological treasures to their place of origin and in accordance with the 1970 unesco convention 'unidroit', cultural property is to be repatriated. i would therefore like to ask you again, commissioner, to repeat the question i raised a year ago when we discussed your candidacy for the post of commissioner. do you have an answer, commissioner, to the question of the return of the archaeological treasures stolen by the nazis to greece?
madam president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report, which contains everything we had the opportunity to discuss at the conference organised by the 'soste nero' movement in thessaloniki last may, where we were invited to speak. i, for my part, support the struggle of the movements and the european citizens' initiative for the right to water and i call on the commission to exclude water services from the negotiations under way on ttip and tisa. the european union must respect the treaty and stop promoting the privatisation of water companies, especially in countries which are in a memorandum, as is the case in greece with the ehea in thessaloniki. i support the report and oppose the amendments of the epp which seek to weaken the report and the campaign of european citizens. water is a public good and access to water and sanitation is an inalienable right of every citizen as defined by the un general assembly itself.
mr president, we are discussing today a very important issue which will affect future generations and which will certainly be discussed again in the future. i am glad that this report prohibits the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes, but that is the only positive aspect of it. firstly, the ban is temporary and the commitment to lift it in the future leaves no doubt as to the real intentions of the european institutions in this matter. the definition of the concept of 'offspring of cloned animals' is then considerably narrowed, with the direct consequence that the descendants of cloned animals eventually end up in the food chain. it should also be clear that, with the ttip agreement, we are leaving europe unprotected from the import of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals, which are reproduced freely and uncontrollably in the united states. obviously you have learned nothing from the disease of spongiform encephalopathy. when we intervene so violently in nature, it's at least naive to think we'll avoid the consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal cloning is not carried out in the same way as the cloning of animals.
mr president, despite claims to the contrary, the cloning of farm animals does not serve the food needs of a country's population but is purely and simply done for the profit-making purposes of the multinational meat and other livestock cartels. the cloning of animals is a painful technique for animals and endangers their health because it is done by methods that violate nature. and you know very well that when nature is violated, it takes its revenge. in this case, the revenge of nature is the dangers faced by people who consume products derived from cloned animals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as the rest of the world. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. finally, we must concentrate our attention on devising a method of identifying and labelling cloned products mainly from third countries.
madam president, in the last century, human activity has led to the greatest disruption of the ecological balance that has occurred on planet earth in the last 65 million years. in less than 100 years, we humans have managed to wipe out almost half of biodiversity, and not only are we continuing today on this pernicious path to desertification, but we are also on the verge of further distorting the balance of nature and evolution through the cloning of animals, and possibly not only animals. we are, in effect, operating as apprentice magicians, unleashing powers beyond our control. the european union must assume its responsibilities as one of the most important actors on the world stage and be at the forefront of the fight to protect nature. we need a strict ban on cloning for any commercial purpose.
ecr), in writing. the issue of food safety and the protection of public health and consumers is of paramount importance. and i have emphasized that repeatedly in this room. cloning for agricultural purposes is rightly prohibited within the eu. but the eu imports food products from the usa - canada, argentina and brazil where cloning is allowed. so the eu turns a blind eye and lets them do the dirty work. since cloning is harmful to humans and animals, the commission should therefore include specific provisions prohibiting the import of food produced from animal clones, as regards clone breeding material and its descendants, and meat and milk from clone descendants that are now entering the food chain. the commission must also take account of the fact that the cloning technique does not meet animal welfare standards.
madam president, the proper functioning and control of customs authorities is an important factor in the smooth functioning of a state and at the same time in the proper functioning of the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. in my country, greece, there have been many cases of illegal 'greening' of products, which, as soon as they cross the border, are 'baptized' in greek, with the result that greek farmers, already impoverished by the memorandum, see their own products rot. the sum of the 'greening' of skopje's ammonia plants each year is known, as is the fact that oil from tunisia is 'baptized' into greek. the european union must therefore do its duty and fight customs fraud, thus contributing to the internal market objective of making safe products available with genuine certificates of origin.
thank you, mr president. i would like to table an amendment to article 29, in particular to the second paragraph, where it says 'so that the situation can be compared', adding the words 'and needs', and i would also like to make a second addition, following the same sentence 'of different sizes' whereby its proportional support will also be assessed. thank you, sir.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while forced labour is absolutely reprehensible and condemnable, this recommendation, instead of focusing on the major problems of european workers, focuses on illegal immigrants and is a trojan horse aimed at relaxing laws against illegal immigration.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while forced labour is absolutely reprehensible and condemnable, this recommendation, instead of focusing on the major problems of european workers, focuses on illegal immigrants and is a 'trojan horse' aimed at relaxing laws against illegal immigration. i vote against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation for the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation convention, 1930, on forced or compulsory labour relating to matters of social policy, because, on the one hand, that convention condemns the new forms of slavery and exploitation to which 880,000 people in the european union and 1,600,000 on the european continent are subject and, on the other hand, its support will be another lever of pressure for the european union to accede to the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while forced labour is absolutely reprehensible and condemnable, this recommendation, instead of focusing on the major problems of european workers, focuses on illegal immigrants and is a trojan horse aimed at relaxing laws against illegal immigration.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this recommendation of the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs. the text also lays down additional mechanisms to combat forced or compulsory labour and updates the relevant convention. the text also sets out the preconditions for supporting and protecting victims of forced labour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are fighting against parliamentary privileges that promote discrimination but also foster two-speed justice. everyone should be equal before the law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are fighting against parliamentary privileges which introduce discrimination and lead to two-tier justice. everyone should be equal before the law. i am voting in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ meps should be held accountable to the courts when there is a need to investigate their actions, in accordance with the legal procedures in place at the time.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the customs and agricultural arrangements are what have created the two-speed eu which is destroying the south for the benefit of the industrialised north. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the customs and agricultural arrangements are what have created the two-speed eu which is destroying the south for the benefit of the industrialised north. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the customs and agricultural rules, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session on 8/9/2015 and because the european union must protect greek farmers and herders affected by the memorandum and resolutely combat illegal 'farming' by small and medium-sized farmers from countries such as turkey and the caspian sea.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the customs and agricultural arrangements are what have created the two-speed eu which is destroying the south for the benefit of the industrialised north. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the fishermen in the european union are not discriminated against. if there are exceptions, then there is inequality. this text tolerates the abuse of animals for the sake of 'tradition'. the right to self-determination which he invokes is also linked to the right to self-determination, that is to say one man, one vote. the special privileges granted to a special group of people at the expense of the true natives of europe are, in our view, a form of negative discrimination.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am opposed to the report because it promotes inequality between fishermen in the european union. the rules should apply to everyone. if there are exceptions, then there is inequality. this text tolerates the abuse of animals for the sake of 'tradition'. the right of self-determination to which he refers is also linked to the right of self-determination, that is to say one man, one vote. the special privileges for a special group of people at the expense of the true natives of europe are, in my view, a kind of negative discrimination.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/9/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the fishermen in the european union are not discriminated against. if there are exceptions, then there is inequality. this text tolerates the abuse of animals for the sake of 'tradition'. the right to self-determination which he invokes is also linked to the right to self-determination, that is to say one man, one vote. the special privileges granted to a special group of people at the expense of the true natives of europe are, in our view, a form of negative discrimination.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because this report is only superficially anti-cloning, leaves too many windows open and deliberately omits so that food from cloned animals can eventually reach the market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the cloning of animals bred and bred for agricultural purposes. the present report is only superficially anti-cloning, it leaves too many windows open and its omissions are deliberate, so that food derived from cloned animals eventually ends up on the market.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the cloning of animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species reared and bred for agricultural purposes, because it rightly calls for the technique of animal cloning to be banned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report is superficially anti-cloning, leaves too many windows open and deliberately omits to allow food derived from cloned animals to eventually reach the market.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the ep rightly places stricter restrictions on the european commission's original proposal to ban animal cloning, extending the ban to all farmed animals, their descendants and products derived from them, and to imports of such products into the eu. we have no right to endanger the health of european citizens and future generations by consuming products of dubious quality.
thank you, your honor. i cannot support a report on fundamental rights which contains positions which distort the nature of the subject and serve political ends; the report states that the austerity imposed on the member states by means of a budgetary adjustment programme is the sole responsibility of the institutions, whereas we all know that the member states are also cooperating in order to escape the crisis; a report which does not protect the security of citizens but opens up the way for criminal acts; a report which does not recognise the control mechanisms in the member states and proposes a new mechanism, hiding or serving the interests of the targeted. for these reasons, i have tabled an independent, integrated, alternative motion for a resolution which reflects respect for fundamental rights and the right of access to them for all citizens and residents of the european union, without exception. thank you very much.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it is regrettable that, while the ep legislates on the basis of the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms and calls for respect for individual and political rights, despite the repeated complaints by golden dawn meps about the illegal and systematic persecution of the parliamentary group and its members by the greek government, it has not even proceeded to a formal examination of these complaints.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ of course, i am voting against because i find it regrettable that, on the one hand, the ep is legislating on the basis of the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms and demands respect for individual and political rights and, on the other, ignores the repeated complaints by golden dawn meps about the illegal and systematic persecution of the parliamentary group and its members by the greek government and does not even formally examine these complaints.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014) for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7 september 2015. moreover, it is noted that, in particular in greece, the memorandum measures deprived the impoverished people of their right to access basic public goods such as health, education and social security. the european union, and in particular the commission, must therefore ensure that the charter of fundamental rights is respected in greece too. we also criticise the answer given by commissioner moscovici to my written question that 'the european social charter is allegedly not binding under union law and therefore does not impose legal obligations on the union and its member states within the legal order of the european union', thus discrediting and insulting my fellow countrymen who are affected by the memorandum.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it is regrettable that, while the ep legislates on the basis of the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms and calls for respect for individual and political rights, despite the repeated complaints by golden dawn meps about the illegal and systematic persecution of the parliamentary group and its members by the greek government, it has not even proceeded to a formal examination of these complaints.
in writing. ‒ we consider that any attempt to amend the regulations on hearings of commissioners which does not involve a genuinely democratic process but is based on 'elections without representatives' demonstrates the undemocratic and anti-people mentality espoused by the european union.
in writing. i believe that any attempt to amend the 'hearing of commissioners' regulations' does not involve a genuine democratic process but is based on 'unrepresented elections', demonstrating the undemocratic and anti-people mentality espoused by the european union. my vote is no.
in writing. ‒ the hearing process of commissioners is not provided for in the treaty but it is well-established practice since 1994. however, this process should be improved. i voted against the report for two mainly reasons. firstly it is important for a political group to have the possibility to request a vote on the commissioner’s designation and to express a minority opinion. secondly, the implementation of the ‘institutionalisation model’ of commissioners’ designation will limit the possibility for political groups to evaluate commissioners and for smaller political groups to ask questions. for all these reasons, i do not support this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the procedures and practices for the hearings of commissioners, lessons to be drawn from the 2014 procedure, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/9/2015.
in writing. ‒ the attempt to amend the 'hearing of commissioners' regulations, which do not involve a genuinely democratic process but rely on 'elections without representatives', demonstrates the undemocratic and anti-people mentality displayed by the european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report shows the hypocrisy of the eu which, while promoting the full liberalisation of digital technology networks and the unrestricted use of information and communication technologies in third countries in the light of human rights, some of its countries use these technologies to intercept and monitor officials and citizens of its member states. it is more a wishlist on how these technologies should be used, rather than addressing the essence of the problem, which is their controlled use by countries, organisations, companies or individuals to carry out criminal acts.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am opposed to this report because it shows the hypocrisy of the eu which, on the one hand, promotes the full liberalisation of digital technology networks and the unrestricted use of information and communication technologies in third countries in the light of human rights and, on the other, allows some of its countries to use these technologies to intercept and monitor officials and citizens of its member states. the report is more a wish-fulfillment of how these technologies should be used than it is a glimpse into the heart of the problem, which is of course the controlled use of these technologies by countries, organizations, companies or individuals for the purpose of committing criminal acts.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on 'human rights and technology: the impact of intrusion and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries' because, through this report, the european parliament calls for the active development and dissemination of technologies that help protect human rights and facilitate digital rights and freedoms, as well as the security of citizens, that promote best practices and appropriate legislative frameworks, while guaranteeing the security and integrity of personal data.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report shows the hypocrisy of the eu which, while promoting the full liberalisation of digital technology networks and the unrestricted use of information and communication technologies in third countries in the light of human rights, some of its countries use these technologies to intercept and monitor officials and citizens of its member states. it is more a wishlist on how these technologies should be used than it is a question of the controlled use of these technologies by countries, organizations, companies or individuals to carry out criminal acts.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we are opposed in principle to the common agricultural policy, which we consider to be a restriction on the independence and self-sufficiency of the member states, with the aim of putting them at a disadvantage vis-à-vis the union by creating a relationship of dependence. we believe that the cap has nothing to do with the union's theoretical aims and that it is also the tombstone of traditional agricultural production. the so-called simplification is intended to cement an already failed policy which in countries such as greece and cyprus has destroyed primary production.
in writing. i disagree in principle with the common agricultural policy because i believe that it limits the independence and self-sufficiency of the member states and is designed to place them at a disadvantage vis-à-vis the union by creating a relationship of dependence. i think that the cap has nothing to do with the - in theory - objectives of the union and i also think that it is the tombstone of traditional agricultural production. the so-called simplification is intended to cement an already failed policy which, in countries such as greece and cyprus, has eliminated primary production.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on 'protecting the european union's financial interests: introducing performance-based controls in the framework of the common agricultural policy', for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/9/2015, and because this report promotes the creation of a two-speed europe in the agricultural sector by dividing the member states of the european union into good and bad when it comes to the management of eu resources.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the common agricultural policy must not restrict the independence and self-sufficiency of the member states in order to place them at a disadvantage vis-à-vis the union by creating a relationship of dependence.
thank you, mr president. as you know, between 75 and 90 per cent of businesses in the southern countries are family-owned, and the vast majority of them are small and mediumsized enterprises. as small and mediumsized enterprises, they were the first and most important victims of the economic crisis. it is therefore urgent that the problem be tackled directly at community and national policy level and that a new initiative be launched. in this context, the report takes a comprehensive and balanced approach, aiming either at addressing all the factors which lead to the exclusion of these enterprises from support measures or at exempting them from production obligations because, in principle, their specificities have not been analysed and have not been given special attention and because community and national policies for smes have proved in any case inadequate and ineffective in dealing with the crisis and the phenomenon of divestment. the absence of a legally binding and statistically acceptable definition at european level of what constitutes a family business has resulted in the inability to collect statistical and comparable data and to provide good practice, the absence of studies focusing on their specific characteristics, the lack of an assessment of the administrative impact of the regulatory framework and, above all, the absence of associations or structures to represent their interests. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. many of these were accepted and incorporated into the text of the report. at the same time, i tried, in the oral amendment which was voted for, to stress that the needs, challenges and problems faced by these enterprises are directly related to their size and that, therefore, small and medium-sized family businesses are the ones who are entitled to and should receive proportionate financial institutional support or relief from unnecessary obligations. in conclusion, mr president, with the report as a whole voting in favour and with the european parliament having completed this overall and consensual effort, i call on the commission to proceed immediately with the implementation of the proposed measures. thank you, sir.
i voted in favour of the report because it sets out procedures to support family businesses in greece too, where the memoranda and the merkel austerity policies imposed with the support of the european commission have led to mass unemployment, where unemployment now affects more than one and a half million of our fellow citizens. after five years of austerity, 230,000 small and medium-sized businesses have closed. family businesses account for 85% of all european businesses and create 60% of private sector jobs, making them strong pillars of the european economy. the european commission must therefore define family businesses so that they are not excluded from the possibilities of support offered by the european union. in addition, direct financing must be given to family businesses so that they can invest in foreign markets and receive direct information on market opportunities. thank you, sir.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report does not give the true extent of the transfer of national sovereign rights of the member states to the eu by the mandatory application of european legislation. in addition, the eu imposes the transposition of laws into national law on a case-by-case basis and, basically, in areas of interest to it so that it controls the member states and does not help citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on family businesses in europe because, while it recognises the vital role of family businesses in europe's development, it fails to propose any substantive solutions and remains committed to the ideologies that have led to the current situation.
in writing. ‒ while recognising the vital role of family businesses in europe's development, this report fails to propose any substantive solutions and remains focused on the ideologies that have led to the current situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to support family businesses, which are the backbone of the economy in most member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. the creation of new jobs, particularly at local and regional level, depends to a large extent on them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because we cannot achieve growth by subsidising ngos. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but a spectator of the world.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am against the report on unlocking the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth because growth cannot be achieved through grants to ngos. the more the union moves along this line, the more the problems will continue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the report deplores the short and long-term impact of cuts in public r&d. investments in public r&d are essential for national research programs; we cannot afford cuts in the budget for the horizon 2020. furthermore, in order to have a proper development of the blue economy, it is important to maintain not only european funds but also to incorporate gender perspectives in the blue economy and last but not least to improve ‘eco-innovation’. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on unlocking the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy for job creation and growth for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/9/2015. i would point out that the blue economy should be based mainly on innovation and new technologies. this means support for small and mediumsized enterprises, but also support for quality itself. it means support for renewable energy sources and forms of local cooperation. it means trying to create new jobs and develop new products. it means that we must have the support of economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union. this means more cooperation between the regions themselves and requires support through the structural funds, in particular through the regional development fund itself and the european social fund.
in writing. ‒ growth cannot be achieved through grants to ngos. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but a spectator of the world.
the commission mr president, at a time when youth unemployment is at its highest, particularly in the countries of the european south, promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training is of key importance, particularly for my country, greece, where the memorandum has failed and the troika has sent young people into unemployment and into exile. the youth unemployment rate in greece is the highest in europe, at over 53%. i therefore voted in favour of the report because it proposes measures to help reduce youth unemployment, for example by incorporating finance into the curriculum. the aim is to develop entrepreneurial mindsets among young people and to provide them with incentives and ideas for setting up new companies. at the same time, young people will be able to acquire media and digital skills. finally, programmes combining education and study with work in enterprises are of particular importance, as they will give our young people practical experience.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report does not take into account that the eu's role in education policies is purely coordinating, as this area falls under the exclusive competence of the member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the report on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training because it does not take into account that the eu's role in education policies is purely coordinating and that this area falls under the exclusive competence of the member states.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the economic difficulties are making it increasingly difficult to access educational processes, and often their quality is deteriorating. it is clear that this situation jeopardises the fight against youth unemployment, exacerbates social exclusion and undermines the eu's economic recovery. the education and training of young people must be a top priority for the eu as it is inextricably linked to healthy economies and societies. but we must find ways to support education in practice and not just in words and to secure the necessary expenditure in the field of education, especially in southern countries such as greece, where the economic crisis has led to significant cuts. only through education and training can we promote the entrepreneurship of young people and reduce the shameful unemployment rates.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report does not take into account that the eu's role in education policies is purely coordinating, as this area falls under the exclusive competence of the member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. to support young entrepreneurship effectively we need to invest in the culture of entrepreneurship, to teach it to our young people. every freelancer creates and entrepreneurs. this attitude must be passed on to the citizens so that they are prepared to cope with the competitive market environment. today, in a difficult economic crisis, the options are limited, our young people are leaving because they cannot find a way out, they cannot find a job. we must now equip them so that they can create their own jobs, create their own professions. invest in their ideas and their strengths.
mr president, an integrated approach to cultural heritage in europe cannot exist without the return of stolen archaeological treasures. during world war ii, nazi occupation troops looted the archaeological treasures of my homeland of greece. in fact, the list of stolen archaeological treasures is contained both in the special volume published in 1946 by the greek ministry of education and in the corresponding special report prepared by the british ministry of war. we therefore demand the immediate return of the archaeological treasures of greece looted by the nazis. in my speech yesterday i asked for the commission's intervention on this issue and for the implementation of directive 93/7/eec on the return of stolen archaeological treasures. the commissioner, tibor navracsics, replied that the issue was bilateral and should be resolved transnational. it was a solemn acknowledgement that the question of the return to greece of the archaeological treasures looted by the nazis was an open one and had to be solved. the commission, however, instead of implementing the directive, is washing its hands like another pontius pilate. the commission must take up its responsibilities.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ requests the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state, bypassing the return of those that were removed legally but under special circumstances (parthenon marbles, nike of samothrace, etc.). points out the presence of cultural heritage sites embodying a different or contested past, stresses that reconciliation processes must not lead to the suppression of the historical consciousness of communities, and calls on the member states to reflect on the ethics and methods of presenting cultural heritage and to take into account the diversity of interpretations (fyrom).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against this report because it calls for the return of cultural objects which have been illegally removed from the territory of a member state, but it ignores the request for the return of those which were legally removed but under special circumstances (parthenon marbles, nike of samothrace, etc.). points out the presence of cultural heritage sites embodying a different or contested past and stresses that reconciliation processes must not lead to the suppression of the historical consciousness of communities, while calling on the member states to reflect on the ethics and methods of presenting cultural heritage and to take into account the diversity of interpretations (p.m.a.).
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i would like to express my disappointment that neither the europe 2020 strategy nor the juncker investment plan for europe make any clear reference to culture or cultural heritage. it is time to raise the place of culture on the political agenda and to appreciate its real value in terms of economic growth and employment. it is worth noting that cultural heritage touches on many areas of public policy, such as those relating to regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, maritime affairs, the environment, tourism, education, the digital agenda, external relations, customs cooperation, and research and innovation. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the resources available are used properly to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage on the basis of an integrated and holistic approach.
in writing. ‒ the report follows the commission communication on cultural heritage in europe. it is essential to support the establishment of a european year of cultural heritage, in order to promote national and regional programs. also through the cultural heritage, there is a positive economic and social impact in the regions. furthermore, smaller cultural institutions will be able to profit from financial support and will be more visible. by supporting this report, the european parliament will be able to emphasise these points. this is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ requests the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state, bypassing the return of those that were removed legally but under special circumstances (parthenon marbles, nike of samothrace, etc.). points out the presence of cultural heritage sites embodying a different or contested past, stresses that reconciliation processes must not lead to the suppression of the historical consciousness of communities, and calls on the member states to reflect on the ethics and methods of presenting cultural heritage and to take into account the diversity of interpretations (fyrom).
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this initiative. i come from a country with a great cultural heritage whose foundations and values have influenced the western world and, of course, europe. our culture is the roots and history of every country, of every people. its great monuments, its unique cultural assets. we are obliged to preserve, protect and promote this wealth. we must therefore support any action that preserves our culture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because the union needs even more decisive steps, direct action and not half measures. the present report unfortunately falls into the latter category. it is moving in the right direction, but it is not enough.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the follow-up to the european citizens' initiative 'right2water' because the union needs even more decisive steps, it needs direct action and not half measures. the present report unfortunately falls into the latter category because it may be moving in the right direction but it is not enough.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament, by voting today, strongly supports the first european citizens' initiative 'right to water'. the availability, accessibility and quality of water at affordable prices are integral components of the fundamental human right to water. it is therefore the responsibility of each member state and of the union to ensure that this right is enjoyed by every citizen. water is a public good and its privatization is undoubtedly an issue of concern to millions of citizens in various countries including greece. the european parliament recognises these concerns and stresses that water ownership and management is a choice of the member states and not something that can be imposed by the troika in the context of privatisation programmes. finally, i hope that water, because of all its special characteristics, will be excluded from any eu trade agreement such as ttip. i am sure that, otherwise, parliament will not give its consent.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report under discussion on the continuation of the european citizens' initiative 'right2water' for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/9/2015 and because, true to my commitments, i continue to support the struggle of the movements and the european citizens' initiative for the right to water and i call on the commission to exclude water services from the ongoing negotiations on ttip and tisa and to stop promoting the privatisation of water companies, especially in countries that are in a state of disrepair, as is the case with the ethy in thessaloniki. water is a public good and access to water and sanitation is an inalienable right of every human being, as stated in un general assembly resolution 64/292.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the union needs even more decisive steps, direct action and no half measures. the present report unfortunately falls into the latter category. it is moving in the right direction, but it is not enough.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union, madam president, is in fact lacking a policy to deal with the refugee problem. this lack of policy is partly responsible for the fact that more than 2,000 people have lost their lives trying to reach the european union. the commission's proposal to relocate 40,000 people in need of international protection from greece and italy to other countries is also a drop in the bucket. in greece, which has taken in over 260,000 people since the beginning of the year, these figures sound insulting, especially when one considers that the council is proposing to relocate only 32,000 people, deliberately ignoring the situation on the greek islands, which are "squeezed" under the weight of the people who arrive on them every day. we need a permanent and compulsory relocation mechanism and the abolition of the first entry criterion in the dublin regulation. but above all we need a peaceful solution in syria and by extension in iraq, because only this can be a lasting answer. these people are being forced to flee their countries and seek asylum in europe precisely because of the wars that have broken out with the complicity of both western countries and governments, on both sides of the atlantic.
madam president, the plan of commission president juncker and the commissioner responsible for immigration, mr avramopoulos, is a testament to how the so-called technocrats see the real problems. for example, they propose relocating 40,000 people within two years, when so many have entered a greek island in the eastern aegean in the two months of july and august alone. they ask member states to set up binding quotas. the prime ministers of the united kingdom and hungary have recently replied. cameron has said that britain will only accept refugees from the existing camps in syria. orbán has built a fence on the hungarian-serbian border and said his country would not discuss quotas unless the european union's external borders were sealed first. the greek islands and italy are "diving" and some supposed humanitarians are now shedding tears for little ailan, while they did not react so long to the massacres of thousands of ailan by the islamic state and western-inspired rebels in syria. money does not alleviate human suffering and does not buy peace. there are simple solutions: - repeal regulation (eu) no 604/2013 concerning the first countries of entry; - a comprehensive review of the dublin ii treaty; - a review of the treaty on european union, which is to be completed by the end of the year; - the establishment of reception facilities in turkey where all asylum applications will be processed; - promotion in the european union countries of only those products which meet the criteria. thank you, sir.
madam president, the european union and its governments, in alliance with the united states and nato, after first setting fire to syria, north africa and elsewhere for the sake of the interests of the monopolies, now pretend to be concerned about refugees and migration. they divide immigrants into legal and illegal, into "good" refugees and "bad" immigrants for deportation and strengthen the repressive mechanisms by laying the groundwork for the criminal activity of fascist racist hordes. the dublin à la carte removal reveals that the monopolies are thirsting for cheap workers. that is why the cause of refugees and migration is not hidden, which is the very rotten system of exploitation, the one that generates imperialist wars, interventions and poverty! the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the refugees and migrants in the countries of origin, and it is therefore important that the commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that the refugees and migrants are able to travel freely within the community. the imperialist interventions and the eu navmed force operation must be stopped. the schengen treaty, europol, frontex and the dublin regulation must now be abolished. their actions have been proven to turn the mediterranean into a wet grave.
madam president, i take to the house the cry of anguish of the inhabitants of the aegean islands. greece, impoverished by the memorandum, cannot tolerate more refugees and illegal immigrants. more than 230,000 refugees have flooded into greece since the beginning of 2015. on lesvos alone there are currently over 10,000 refugees, while the island has only 80,000 inhabitants. the situation on koh is explosive. in samos, which i recently visited, but also in chios, the problems are acute. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, the application of the clause allocating all refugees and illegal immigrants at european union level and not just the 40,000 proposed by the commission. third, measures against turkey which supports slave trade rings, as revealed by hurriyet on 29 may 2015; the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the greek government has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the greek people are not left in the lurch.
the hypocrisy and incompetence of the european union and its institutions is too much on the subject of illegal immigration. you 're even afraid of the words: anyone who illegally crosses a country's border is a smuggler. don't confuse humanity with legality. the mediterranean and the aegean have been turned into a vast graveyard. one solution is to set up hot spots in neighbouring countries with the cooperation of the european union and the united nations high commissioner for refugees, and to assess on the spot the refugees that the european union and the united states have created after having bled half the planet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to travel legally and not to be packed into rotting boats and rubber boats at the risk of their lives. the rest will be deported to their countries of origin. this is how the slave traders' activities are stopped immediately. the elements mentioned in this report are outdated. in august alone, over a hundred thousand people came illegally to greece. greece in crisis has shown its humanity and solidarity, saving hundreds of lives every day in the aegean. but we've reached our limit now. the time has come for europe to take responsibility. thank you, sir.
the council is not here, commissioner, unfortunately, and i fear that it is somewhere shedding crocodile tears because this is not the first tragedy. the mediterranean, from lampedusa to the shores of asia minor, is full of corpses. - i know . does the council deal effectively with the reception and treatment of refugees? - no, because it simply places the burden on the shoulders of the frontline states, which, as the commissioner knows, are unable to respond. - i know . does the council propose a permanent and binding mechanism? - not because it is a matter of good will on the part of the member states, but with the clear exception of germany, they are unable to cope with the situation. but even germany could take a more european approach, since for every 500 000 refugees, 350 000 come through helpless greece. - i know . does the council guarantee that there will be no more deaths? - no, because we only deal with refugees once they reach european soil and not before. i believe that three things are needed: immediate support for frontline states, a realistically binding distribution key and legal and safe routes for refugees to arrive from syria.
madam president, cohesion policy is crucial for the development of the european union and for economic prosperity, especially at this stage when europe is suffering from the economic crisis, because it will make it possible to reduce disparities, to reduce the gap between north and south, between the hard core of the euro area and the periphery. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to refer to the question of co-financing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but countries that are in a memorandum or in fiscal adjustment programmes have to reduce deficits and therefore cannot make public investments. to overcome this, public investment should not be counted in deficits. finally, it is unacceptable that the esdp in greece, in order to be implemented, has now been linked, by decision of 12 july by the heads of the eurozone states, to the implementation of the memorandum. this is unacceptable because this condition does not apply anywhere. thank you, sir.
madam president, the union's economic, social and regional cohesion policies are proving to be very ineffective in practice. inequalities between regions have increased over the last decade, and so have social inequalities within member states. the reason is the austerity imposed by the dominant political forces in the union and the states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a good one. the eur 350 billion to be allocated over the seven-year period 2014-2020 is minimal when one considers that the union's gross domestic product over the same period will exceed eur 100 trillion. cohesion policies therefore absorb only 3‰ of eu gdp. this must be increased drastically if we are to achieve convergence rather than divergence, and at the same time the economically weaker member states must be allowed to finance public investment without it being taken into account in their public deficit.
madam president, the resolution we are debating today on 'european year of active ageing and solidarity 2012' brings out both the comic and the sad side of the way the european union works and how we meps often fall into traps. as 2015 draws to a close, with youth unemployment at an all-time high, we are now asking ourselves, rather than simply "emptying up" our posts, whether our guidelines for raising the age limit have been successful. i wonder what kind of solidarity we're talking about. this is not solidarity either with the elderly who are forced to add one extra year every two years until they reach retirement age, or with the young, whose unemployment rate is over 20%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is yet another contradictory policy that forces tired people to look for work until they are 70, while millions of young people are deprived of the opportunity to take their lives into their own hands. i therefore propose that we vote against this report.
madam president, active ageing and solidarity between generations were widely discussed during the european year 2012. some of the objectives of the european year, such as raising public awareness of the optimal quality of life of people as they age, have been achieved. however, there are some outstanding issues. first, there should be increased funding for social security systems and public infrastructure for the elderly, such as nursing homes. particular emphasis should also be placed on sparsely populated and insular areas, such as the aegean islands, which have fewer means and infrastructure to promote active demand, and more generally on regions with a demographic handicap. in addition, the problem of unemployment of people over 50 years of age should be addressed and the discrimination and obstacles faced by these people in their efforts to find work should be stopped. finally, special attention should be paid to pension systems and pension rights in order to ensure a decent life for the elderly.
madam president, the sound cover of active ageing conceals the well-thought-out strategy of the monopolies of the european union and its governments for the total demolition of the public social security, health and welfare systems. capital needs skilled labor to work into old age, with a labor-tie, with starvation wages, to complement some poorhouse allowance called a pension. health becomes the individual responsibility of the elderly who would have to struggle to live independently, having paid a lifetime of insurance contributions. at the same time, you want to feed your new silver-gilt economy of corporations selling so-called healthy aging services. this is the capitalist system you serve, and it's bankrupt. it leads to the barbarity of working yourself to death. hands off the social security! the workers, the people, must oppose these plans with their own strength and alliance, in the way of overthrowing this rotten capitalist system that has no cure.
mr president, we are today examining three fisheries agreements with madagascar, cape verde and guinea-bissau. firstly, i agree with the reservations expressed by my colleagues about the agreement on guinea-bissau. let me add one more remark and ask: has guinea-bissau settled the issues of defining its exclusive economic zone with neighbouring senegal? we are aware of the problems which have arisen in the past from the existence of a grey area of disputed waters, territorial waters between the two countries, a situation which has led to the illegal arrest of fishing vessels of the member states of the european union which were fishing in the area on the basis of licences obtained from senegal. so, has this been settled? the matter had even reached the court of justice of the european union. the second point, of course equally important, which concerns all agreements, is that the economic benefits should be disseminated to the poor in the regions.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. the upgrading of these should be done with the passenger in mind and the environment in mind. but transport is responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions. it is the second largest sector of greenhouse gas emissions after the energy sector. the european union must therefore promote alternative transport, promote mass transport, and in particular railways. in the road transport sector, infrastructure must be strengthened to reduce road accidents and controls must be strengthened. at the same time, the european union must strengthen maritime transport so that islanders, especially in the aegean, have continuous access to the mainland. thank you, sir.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. as we have heard, over four million selfemployed people are active in the union in important sectors such as health, justice and security. the turnover is more than 500 billion euros. the economic crisis, however, has also hit the self-employed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in greece, thousands of selfemployed workers have been hit financially by the memorandum. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i present, for the last time before the vote, my report on the obstacles facing women who aspire to the top echelons of research, technology and science and women who want to sit on boards and seek positions of responsibility. i would like to share some thoughts with you on this subject, hoping for your support tomorrow in voting on this important and ambitious report. the obstacles we are talking about have been known for thirty years as 'glass ceilings'. these are obstacles to the pursuit of equal opportunities, barriers to the fair treatment that women with qualifications, abilities and skills deserve when they seek, with ambition but also with integrity, to achieve the highest possible goals. i would like to start by talking about how these barriers are born. these "glass ceilings", these discriminations against women are due, on the one hand, to the prejudices that still exist in our society, despite the fact that we are in 2015 and live in europe, in the midst of a highly ambitious society that normally should not discriminate against half of the continent's population, and, on the other hand, to family obligations that in fact absorb time from the daily lives of all women, even those who have the qualifications and ambitions to achieve other goals. the result is that women are underrepresented in science and technology and on company boards. these are leadership positions which some women are entitled to seek, provided, of course, that they themselves have the necessary competitive spirit and that the environment allows competition to develop freely. in considering some of the obstacles to women's professional development, i have classified them into a number of important categories. motherhood, a woman's natural privilege and gift, becomes a hindrance when it absorbs time that could otherwise be devoted to the fulfillment of a woman's aspirations. this is a barrier that stems in part from stereotypical perceptions about how much time a woman should devote to motherhood and how much time she can devote to pursuing her goals. another category of obstacles arises from the completely anachronistic separation between women's and men's professions, at a time when so many castles have been overthrown by women and with extremely important results and achievements for science and technology. a third category is the gender pay gap, a problem which in many cases requires recourse to the courts to restore equality and equal access for women to specific positions in research programmes. our report addresses motherhood, infrastructure, programmes and funding, citing above all the principles and values of the european commission and the member states which should guide the efforts of the european research institute and horizon 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the breastfeeding of children and the education of adolescents and young people have the power to shape those mindsets that we need to finally recognize that half the population of the planet is entitled to exactly the same opportunities as the other half, that human beings, men and women, are equal to each other.
mr president, after congratulating the rapporteur, mrs voseberg, on her report, i should like to point out that, as the statistics show, the proportion of women researchers in business is still 19% today, while the correspondingly low percentages are also observed in the education sector. it is clear that these rates are the result of discrimination against women in these workplaces, which in turn often leads to unequal treatment and to pay gaps between the sexes. this discrimination constitutes a violation of basic human rights and must therefore be combated. in particular, the commission should, through training programmes and campaigns, break down all the stereotypes against women and encourage women to enter the scientific and academic world. finally, the member states should, by using the media, help to eliminate the stereotypes that still exist for both sexes. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the right to education is not restricted to the young, and that the right to education is not restricted to the very young.
mr president, the empowerment of girls in the european union through education is essential if there is to be equality between the sexes. all member states should contribute to the democratisation of education to ensure that gender equality is promoted and that men and women are given equal opportunities to participate in social and economic development. in addition, awareness campaigns on discrimination against women should be organised and vocational guidance services improved to reduce discrimination in the labour market. all curricula should include education on gender rights. any awareness-raising initiative on the issue of gender discrimination should be strengthened. education should break down gender stereotypes and promote women in all workplaces, thereby empowering society at large.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. now, not only must we increase funding for the integration of refugees by much more than 1% of community gdp, but we must proceed directly to the mandatory sharing of responsibility. the commission has a say in this and must monitor it. but at the same time, we welcome them to greece, because they end up on the greek islands of kos and lesvos, hundreds of families with children in their arms, because we greeks know about refugees, and we must know who are those who are stepping on our soil. as europeans we must secure our borders and host countries must be strengthened in this respect. but in the greek crisis, mr president, the illusion that populism can provide solutions has also been shattered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the government that emerges from the elections must be stable and guarantee a secure economic environment within the framework of the agreement. of course grexit will not be brought back to the table because we will not allow it to return. we will succeed, with the help of the european union, as the spanish, portuguese and irish have succeeded.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank president juncker for his positive role in managing the greek crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. syriza is running with a softer programme and new democracy, my party, is making impressive political overtures for partnerships right after the election. i want to emphasize that politics is evolving in greece but the economic crisis remains with us. if we prove after the elections that we are able to manage the crisis effectively, then we will again need the help of mr juncker and the institutions for a more flexible policy, as regards taxation of farmers, taxation of smes, taxation of the tourist sector. we must first prove that we are consistent ourselves and then we will need to relax the tax policy somewhat to get out of the crisis with dynamic economic growth.
mr president, we have heard mr juncker's eighty-minute speech, which, i must admit, would have been the envy of fidel castro. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one. in other words, it has sold once again "silk ribbon sockets", because these 35 billion euros are funds that greece is entitled to anyway from the european union's structural funds for the period 2014-2020. we have also heard mr juncker, as the cynical representative of the europe of creditors, threaten the greek people if they do not submit to the third memorandum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am therefore telling you, mr juncker, that your threats against the greek people will not go unheeded. the sooner you realize this, the better for you and the commission.
mr president, 260,000 migrants have crossed into greece this year from the turkish coast, compared with 77,100 in 2014 and 43,000 in 2013. the problem is acute and requires a coherent european immigration policy. the european parliament is for the first time co-legislating with the council, so there must be an immediate decision on a permanent, binding mechanism for the fair distribution of refugees among the member states, as proposed by the commission. in addition, turkey must comply with the readmission agreements signed with the european union in 2011 and with greece in october 2014. finally, mr president, we are honoured that the europe of values has always shown its human face in the migration problem.
mr president, today's lengthy and courageous speech by president juncker, which refers to the causes and responsibilities of the european union, even if only in a descriptive way, is the most official admission of failure of both the european union's foreign and refugee policy, because, unfortunately, it is being carried out under the weight of thousands of deaths, in the shadow of inhuman living conditions for refugees and under the pressure that the countries of central europe are now facing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the european union to take action in the fight against terrorism. let us first of all recognize our responsibilities and see to it that there is never again another refugee drowned or dead, that there is never again another refugee in miserable living conditions. in solidarity and with dignity, we must ensure that the european union as a whole is responsible for helping refugees. we need immediate guarantees of legal access and safe routes, the establishment of a relocation mechanism of a permanent and mandatory nature, the abolition of the criterion of the country of first entry and substantial and effective initiatives for peace in the war zones. )
gue/ngl), in writing. the european parliament debated today the plight of the many refugees who are heading for the european union in nightmarish circumstances. we seem to have tacitly accepted the refugee status of all these people. but refugee status is not a normal development. people from syria, iraq and elsewhere are being forced to flee their homes because of the armed conflict that has been going on there for years, with the complicity of western countries on both sides of the atlantic. union member states participated in the us-led coalition that invaded iraq in 2003 in violation of the un charter and, more recently, union member states have also contributed in various ways to undermining the assad regime in syria, paving the way for the murderous incursion of islamist extremists. we need to address the root of the problem. the european union must actively help syrian society in particular, since it is the source of the majority of refugees, to find a peaceful solution to its internal contradictions and, of course, to eradicate the cancer of the 'islamic state' once and for all. the west must rid itself of the dangerous illusion that it can impose its own model of governance everywhere and limit itself to the search for stability and the pursuit of a peaceful settlement of differences.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the change of name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to 'delegation for relations with palestine' is an initial step towards the recognition of the state of palestine, which we fully agree with.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of changing the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to 'delegation for relations with palestine'.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to delegation for relations with palestine, because steps must be taken to establish an independent palestinian state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to 'delegation for relations with palestine'
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which will promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of my country because it will cause a reduction in fishing in greece, since it will promote catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. for the reasons stated above, my vote is against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8/9/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which will promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of my country because it will cause a reduction in fishing in greece, since it will promote catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. for the reasons stated above, my vote is against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8/9/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. in addition, this agreement does not substantially address the reckless fishing of sharks in the area concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which will promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of my country because it will cause a reduction in fishing in greece, since it will promote catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. moreover, this agreement does not substantially combat the indiscriminate fishing of vulnerable species in that area. i therefore vote against it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. in addition, this agreement does not substantially address the reckless fishing of sharks in the area concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. in addition, this agreement does not substantially address the reckless fishing of sharks in the area concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which will promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of my country because it will cause a reduction in fishing in greece, since it will promote catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. moreover, this agreement does not substantially combat the indiscriminate fishing of vulnerable species in that area. i therefore vote against it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. in addition, this agreement does not substantially address the reckless fishing of sharks in the area concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. moreover, this agreement does not substantially combat the reckless fishing of vulnerable species in the area concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which will promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of my country because it will cause a reduction in fishing in greece, since it will promote catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. moreover, this agreement does not substantially combat the indiscriminate fishing of vulnerable species in that area. i therefore vote against it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the republic of madagascar and the european community, because it is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements between the eu and third countries should be sought which promote the development of the eu member states without prejudice to their national and economic interests. the agreement in question is detrimental to the interests of our country because it will reduce our country's fisheries by promoting catches from third countries which were acquired at much lower cost. moreover, this agreement does not substantially combat the reckless fishing of vulnerable species in the area concerned.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit. it is not possible for countries to receive millions of euros in financial aid from the eu and for their citizens to flood the member states looking for work and more.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of eur 400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit. it is not possible for countries to receive millions of euros in financial aid from the eu and for their citizens to flood the member states looking for work and more. for the reasons stated above, i shall vote against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu is drawing from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit. it is not possible for countries to receive millions of euros in financial aid from the eu and for their citizens to flood the member states looking for work and more.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu is drawing from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit. it is not possible for countries to receive millions of euros in financial aid from the eu and for their citizens to flood the member states looking for work and more.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of eur 400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their own benefit. it is not possible for countries to receive millions of euros in financial aid from the eu and for their citizens to flood the member states looking for work and more. for the reasons stated above, my vote is against.
in writing. ‒ european union, should contribute to faire trade, solidarity and mutual respect, on the other hand, wto should be part of a multilateral framework. however, trade facilitation agreement (tfa) does not include issues like: climate change, reducing the gap between rich and poor countries, promoting fair trade. i acknowledge that the implementation of trade facilitation reforms has broader development benefits, despite that i believe that the fta should not be implemented since it does not take into account the negative impact which will occur. this is why i voted against this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit. it is not possible for countries to receive millions of euros in financial aid from the eu and for their citizens to flood the member states looking for work and more.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we believe that the growth of trade within the eu, but also with major players such as russia and switzerland, has only to be added to the economies of the member states. through trade, member states can strengthen their economic relations with russia, a country which the eu sees as an enemy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this authorisation because i believe that the growth of trade both within the eu and with major players such as russia and switzerland has only benefits to offer to the economies of the member states. through trade, member states can strengthen their economic relations with russia, a country the eu sees as an enemy.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation concerning the proposal for a council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland respectively to ratify the budapest convention on contracts for the carriage of goods by inland waterway (cmni) and the republic of austria to accede to it, as it is complete and well founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we believe that the growth of trade within the eu, but also with major players such as russia and switzerland, has only to be added to the economies of the member states. through trade, member states can strengthen their economic relations with russia, a country which the eu sees as an enemy.
in writing. ‒ the report is far from providing solutions to the serious problem of illegal immigration. while there is an admission of the seriousness of the situation in greece and italy, the proposed measures and the so-called 'holistic approach', combined with the 'wishes' for a future review of the treaties, are a sham and show the technocratic views of the committees.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. while there is an admission of the seriousness of the situation in greece and italy, the proposed measures and the so-called 'holistic approach', combined with the 'wishes' for a future review of the treaties, are a sham and show the technocratic views of the committees.
in writing. ‒ the european agenda on migration presented on 13 may 2015, is already outdated. we must and we should take immediate measures to respond to the crisis that greece and italy are facing. under the article 78.3 (tfeu), all member states should ensure a fair and balanced participation. the report emphasizes on the fact that dublin regulation should be amended. it addresses the difficulties, which greece and italy are facing with the inflow of national of third countries. calls for asylum-seekers’ consent to be relocated and be also based on their criteria (family ties, social relations, work). the current common european asylum system, do not allow greece and italy to address the unprecedented request of asylum seekers. we need to adopt new measures. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption of provisional measures in the area of international protection for italy and greece, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 september 2015. i would also point out that greece, which has been impoverished by the memorandum, cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. on lesvos alone there are currently over 10,000 refugees, while the island has only 80,000 inhabitants. the situation on koh is explosive. in samos, which i recently visited, but also in chios, the problems are acute. so here and now immediate action is required: firstly, the abolition of the dublin iii regulation which is turning greece into a warehouse of souls. secondly, the application of the clause allocating all refugees and illegal immigrants at european union level and not just the 40,000 proposed by the commission. third, measures against turkey which supports slave trade, as revealed by hurriyet on 29 may 2015; fourth, a bold increase in european union funds to greece, because the amounts provided are tiny given the critical situation; the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process.
in writing. ‒ the report is far from providing solutions to the serious problem of illegal immigration. while there is an admission of the seriousness of the situation in greece and italy, the proposed measures and the so-called 'holistic approach', combined with the 'wishes' for a future review of the treaties, are a sham and show the technocratic views of the committees.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the urban dimension of eu policies is nothing more than a crescent of the exercise and development of citizens' dependence on the state. the eu should support agrophilia and look at ways and means which, combined with the development of local agricultural production and entrepreneurship, would finally bring development to the neglected european periphery.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ my vote is negative on the urban dimension of eu policies. the urban dimension of eu policies is nothing but a crescent of the cultivation and development of citizens' dependence on the state. the eu should support the opposite trend, that of rural areas, and look at ways and means which, combined with the development of local agricultural production and entrepreneurship, can finally bring development to the neglected european periphery.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the urban dimension of eu policies because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the urban dimension of eu policies is nothing more than a crescent of the exercise and development of citizens' dependence on the state. the eu should support agrophilia and look at ways and means which, combined with the development of local agricultural production and entrepreneurship, would finally bring development to the neglected european periphery.
mr president, the impoverishment, the war and the bloodshed of the peoples of the middle east, the continued occupation and slaughter of the palestinian people by israel, the uprooting of people by waves to drown in the watery grave into which you have turned the mediterranean, all these are crimes that bear the stamp of the imperialist interventions of the european union and its allies, the united states and nato. crimes committed under all kinds of pretexts, like today with the jihadists who are your own hideous creation. today's statements by mr juncker, the threats he has made against third countries, including the award of the title of 'safe country', are a sign of the european union's increased aggressiveness and the intensification of imperialist competition for control of energy resources and their transport routes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the people have the power to disrupt these plans. it is only when they correctly target the capitalist system, their monopolies and associations, that they can take into their own hands the wealth they can produce and reap it themselves.
mr president, a young syrian said in an interview, "stop the wars and we will stop leaving our country". but how can we stop the wars that the united states is causing when, as the european union, we are ourselves engaged in them, wars that create refugees and migrants who are not going, of course, to the united states but coming to europe, wars in which we are supporting, by default, the wrong side? in syria, for example, we still want to overthrow assad who is fighting against isis at a time when the rebels have been almost annihilated militarily. we're dealing with turkey smuggling weapons to isis. we are against turkey smuggling thousands of migrants into greece, including criminal jihadists. we tolerate saudi arabia bombing yemen and finally we tolerate turkey bombing kurdish fighters instead of fighting isis, the only land force that has had military successes against the jihadists. if we do not change our policy, what answer can we give to the young syrian?
mr president, the problem at the moment, in my view, is that israel's relations with the palestinian authority are more affected than in the past by external factors. the disappearance of the so-called arab nationalism and arab socialism, which were expressed by various regimes in the past, has strengthened the wing of the radical islamists in the palestinian movement and in arab countries. this means that the leadership of the palestinian movement is having difficulty making the necessary compromises with israel because it does not want to be accused of treason. for its part, israel, which is the only truly democratic country in the region and therefore must always be the privileged partner of the european union, feels threatened by the growth of islamist forces, by instability in egypt, by the substantial disintegration of syria and iraq to the benefit of the so-called islamic state and by the policy of iran. the resolution is moving in the right direction, but we must expand our action, as the president of the european commission, mr juncker, said this morning, in order to create a positive dynamic in the wider region so that israelis and palestinians can understand each other. we need more europe in this particular case, in the sense of a genuine common foreign policy, if we are to have a positive impact on the wider region so that the two sides can reach the historic compromise we have described, unfortunately without seeing any results for decades.
madam president, one year after the last massacre in the gaza strip, we are still discussing the role of the european union in the peace negotiations. but there are virtually no negotiations. the two-state solution seems difficult and the policy of the european union is making it impossible. how can there be negotiations when israel has demonstrated in practice that it does not want a solution? for those of you who don't understand, here's the thing: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. all this is happening at a time when the united nations commission of inquiry is speaking of israeli war crimes and the unprecedented physical leveling of the gaza strip, blaming the israeli ruling military and political elite. meanwhile, we count five million palestinian refugees in squalid camps, we count 750 kilometres of wall twelve metres high and we see apartheid conditions in gaza. are we still wondering about our role? but it is foreseen and enforced by the international legal order which we claim to respect. our role is one and the same: to compel the state of israel to respect international treaties and the decisions of international organizations, to compel it to tear down the wall, to end the blockade of gaza, to stop the settlements and to release the illegally detained. the european union has a duty to ensure that the palestinians are not left behind, and that the palestinians are not left behind.
madam president, the restoration of peace in the middle east is crucial both for the peoples of the region and for the european union itself, because only then will it be possible to stop the huge flow of refugees flooding the aegean islands and the rest of europe. the european union must also take action to ensure that ankara stops facilitating the trafficking rings that smuggle thousands of refugees from syria to greece. mrs mogherini, i take this opportunity to inform you and the house that spyros hakakambimana, a burundian police officer of greek origin, has been in prison since 27 june for refusing to kill protesters. his life is in danger and i ask for your immediate intervention to secure his release. according to a letter given to me by his lawyers, he was tortured for 10 days, and the conditions in the prison where he is being held in burundi are miserable. we are also aware of the continuing violations of human rights in burundi, which have been repeatedly condemned in european parliament resolutions. please for your intervention.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already announced initiatives to solve the union's economic problems. the truth is that every initiative that has been taken has failed in practice. the measures taken usually aggravate the problems rather than solve them. it is believed that mobility will solve the problem of unemployment, but it will only turn some countries of the union into economic dead zones that will produce only internal migrants. in the last five years of the memorandum supervision, thousands of young people with a high level of training who could contribute to its development have emigrated from crisis-hit greece. it is quite logical that you should not be concerned about this, since they are now contributing to the development of germany and other european countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. the european union is a great example of the kind of solidarity that can be found in the european union. thank you, sir.
mr president, the 'merkel' austerity has filled europe with armies of unemployed people, now numbering 24 million. unemployment rates are running high. at the same time, however, there are large differences in unemployment rates from one country to another. in greece, which has been impoverished by the memorandum, the figure is 26%. in germany it is only 5%. youth unemployment in greece has exceeded 53%; spain follows. at the same time, two million jobs remain unfilled in the european union because of a mismatch between qualifications and labour market needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of education and training in the member states. more public and private investment is needed. investment in innovative sectors and strengthening of social services are needed. the european union must not be left in the lurch by the economic crisis, but must be able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world.
thank you very much, your honor. the crisis will only end when unemployment in europe is over, president juncker said this morning. we agree. the only problem is that the end of unemployment is not in keeping with what the report calls a 'competitive labour market' nor with the tools and policies it proposes. the lack of training is not to blame for the unemployment of 23 million citizens in the eu, nor is unemployment a disease to be blamed on the unemployed, who must become even more flexible and mobile. we agree with some of the ideas in the report, such as the obvious need for apprenticeship, the improvement of workers' skills and synergies between all the actors in production. but in greece, one in two young people is unemployed, while the majority of children, even though they have a degree, skills, a master's degree and speak more than two foreign languages, are forced to do menial jobs for 300 euros a month. training alone is not the answer if the economy cannot make use of people's skills. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of education and training in the member states, and has also set up a number of training centres in the member states. thank you, sir.
mr president, social entrepreneurship can contribute to development, with the primary objective of benefiting the community and creating social value rather than selfish profit. social innovation seeks answers to social problems by identifying and providing services that improve the lives of people and communities, by identifying and implementing new processes of integration into the labour market, aiming at the well-being of individuals and communities, as consumers and producers, and in relation to local development. we therefore need arrangements to provide support mechanisms, both in the start-up and in the operating phases of social enterprises, and we need dedicated funding for them and ways of representing and publicising their work. the acquisition of skills in the areas of management and entrepreneurship should also be strengthened and the recognition of the sector should be improved, both in the public administration as a whole and among the general public.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the mass unemployment and poverty affecting european society as a result of the economic and public debt crisis are leading to social exclusion, marginalisation and ultimately to the restriction of the right of equal access of european citizens to health care and health services. the catastrophic policy of the memorandum and the troika in greece has destroyed public health and hospitals. in order to have sustainable health care systems in the european union, there must be increased public spending. also, adequate resources can only come from growth, which will lead to an increase in the tax revenues of the state and the consequent increase in public expenditure on health. growth will also lead to the creation of new jobs and so the social partners themselves will be able, in their own part, to secure resources to maintain the sustainability of health care systems in the european union. thank you, sir.
mr president, it is hypocritical to discuss the sustainability of health care systems in europe in general and vague terms when there are huge differences between countries, depending on their economic situation. to give an example, according to the data provided by the commission itself in its communication no 215 of 2014, the number of deaths that could have been avoided if there had been timely and adequate health care is in lithuania and latvia about 15 times higher than the number of deaths in france. in romania, there are about 10 times as many. over time, differences get worse rather than better. for example, in greece over the last five years, because of the murderous austerity programs, we have had at least a 10% increase in the total number of deaths. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i 'm not . madam president, in july we voted in the committee on legal affairs, and by a large majority, the report on the application of european law for the years 2012-2013. the report also served as a tool for our committee's dialogue with the committees on petitions, constitutional affairs, the environment and human rights. it is through this creative process of exchanging views with members from different political backgrounds and with different parliamentary responsibilities that we have arrived at the text before you today. this report joins a series of previous reports which each year reflect parliament's response to the commission's formal opinion on how european law has been applied or not applied in the union over a given period of time. traditionally, these reports have focused on how member states apply european law and on the mechanisms and tools that can be used to comply with their obligations. this aspect of the application of union law is developed in detail in our report with data so that it can be understood by every citizen where the difficulties and problems are identified. but for the first time, we dared to go one step further. for the first time in this report we have dared to say the obvious, namely that the application of union law is not only a requirement for the member states but also binds the union itself, its institutions and agencies. in particular, it is noted that in the context of the recent financial crisis, member states were forced to take measures undermining primary law of the european union, in particular its provisions relating to the protection of social and economic rights. the report urges the union institutions, the council, the commission and the european central bank, to respect the union's primary law, the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, when adopting secondary law provisions and when adopting policies on economic and social issues which affect human rights. the report also expresses concern that austerity measures imposed on over-indebted member states of the union, which were subsequently incorporated into derivative instruments of european union law before being transposed into domestic law, during the period covered by the two reports under review, and in particular the drastic cuts in public expenditure, have had the effect of significantly reducing the ability of member states to comply with their obligations to properly implement european union law. the report considers that member states undergoing economic adjustment programmes must continue to be able to meet their obligations to respect social and economic rights and recalls that all eu institutions, even when acting as members of international lending groups (see troika or quartet), are bound by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the union. i would ask you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the report because i believe it is a comprehensive and balanced report, which builds on what has already been built but also dares to introduce new dimensions to the problem in a way that ultimately strengthens and honours the powers of our parliament as the voice of the peoples of europe. thank you, sir.
the report on the application of european union law shows that unfortunately all of us, as representatives of our peoples and as champions of democracy, have failed miserably to consolidate the sense of justice, legal merit and the rule of law. the european parliament has repeatedly condemned the illegal and unconstitutional persecution of our party members by the greek government. we presented evidence of manipulation of justice by the political leadership. we have spoken of a flagrant violation of the charter of fundamental rights in matters of personal data protection, respect for privacy, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. the greatest illegality and injustice of all is that the party i represent, the third largest parliamentary force, is being prosecuted as a criminal organisation, deliberately, because greece has not recognised the palermo convention in its national legislation to include it. unfortunately, within the union, justice and democracy are applied a la carte, so that the citizens of our countries have every reason to no longer trust their institutions. thank you, sir.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and agree with him that the question of the application of european union law is very important. as professor of european union institutions at the university, i attached great importance to the role of the commission, because the commission is the guardian of the application of community law. but there are now some serious issues, arising mainly from the memoranda applied in some countries, which have the effect of violating important elements of european union law and, in particular, violating rights relating to social issues. the commission has been asked to intervene in these matters, but because it is also a member of the troika, it is in a conflict of interest. the commission is not applying community law correctly because it is itself, as a member of the troika, participating in the infringement of community law. this is a very important issue, which i raised the other day when i spoke about the reply given to me by mr moscovici, who said that the european social charter is not binding within the european union! i ask you to consider this matter. thank you, sir.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) thank you, madam president. i would like to thank you for the many positive comments on the report here. it would seem that, with the exception of the members in the mountainous benches of the far right wing of parliament, all the wings in this chamber agree that we need more europe and agree that we need to move the clock of history forward and not backwards, to a europe of nations and national confrontations. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. more european means that it must show greater respect for fundamental rights and human dignity, which is, after all, the foundation of the union, according to article 2 of the treaty. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the union must of course become more united, which means that greater cohesion and solidarity must be demonstrated both between member states and within societies. the issue of migration, and in particular the issue of refugees, which is of such great concern to us these days, is one which requires practical solidarity between the member states, greater coherence and a unified approach in dealing with it, because otherwise the member states of first entry are burdened with a burden which they cannot cope with on their own. thank you very much.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including the introduction of a system of penalties for the trafficking of human beings. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the fact is that, in modern times, it is women who are most affected by these practices, for reasons we all know. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. there must be decisive action on our part to crack down on the circles that profit from human trafficking. we must not end up with another morality text, beautiful in its wording but without real impact. we must exhaust all means of pressure on the member states so that there is no tolerance for traffickers. when someone insults in such a brutal way the values and principles of the european peoples, he must face the strictest possible penalties. the union must commit itself to its peoples to crush this international mafia and to break down all obstacles until the network is completely eliminated, whether it concerns trafficking in women or trafficking and exploitation of any human being. thank you, sir.
madam president, i find the subject of today's debate deeply sad. i'd like to share a lead of my own. in the report i am preparing on behalf of the femm committee on domestic and care workers, i have noted with regret that part of this sector of work is fuelled by the illegal trade and trafficking of people. human souls who unwittingly consented to become another link in the chain of illegal trafficking, following traffickers who promise them good jobs, souls who became victims of sexual or labor exploitation. what is the commission doing to protect these victims, the majority of whom are women? it is once again lagging behind, delaying even the assessment of the measures it has asked the member states to take to tackle the problem of the illegal trafficking of human souls. the member states themselves are of course responsible, because they allow the eu's policy to be contradictory and often hypocritical on the issue of trafficking. the european union, while it wants to appear 'tough' on the victims of trafficking, is indirectly allowing this phenomenon with its migration policy as it is currently implemented. by closing legal routes of migration, we are pushing thousands of women into the arms of illegal traffickers. i am sorry to say that the union has contributed to the flourishing of the phenomenon of illicit trafficking. but it has a chance to stop this before it is too late, if it immediately assesses and reviews the measures that will enable it to achieve the objectives set in its 2012-2016 strategy. but that's not all. without coherence between immigration policy, smuggling policy and gender analysis, we will once again be witnessing incidents of incredible horror ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
thank you, madam president. trafficking and smuggling of human beings is a crime and as such must be punished. the problem has now acquired a significant dimension because of the flows of migrants and refugees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human beings, including the use of the word 'slave' in the name of the turkish government. it is not possible that a million refugees could have been transported from syria to the shores of asia minor, across from the greek islands, by themselves. this has never happened before. last summer i went to kuşadası because i really wanted to see what was going on. while on the other side of the island there were thousands of refugees moving about, on the turkish side there was not a single one, because the movement is very organized, because they are provided with lifeboats and boats, because they are in organized camps. a fact-finding mission should be sent to the region ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, despite the official end of the civil war in 2002, the situation in several regions of angola remains volatile, with a large proportion of the population living in poverty. although the country has a fast-growing economy based on the exploitation of oil, diamond and mineral resources, most of the wealth is concentrated in the hands of a disproportionately small segment of society. in addition, the angolan government has been repeatedly accused of corruption, of depletion and misuse of state resources and of violating the rule of law. this corruption of the regime has caused great social discontent that was expressed in 2011 with large protests, which were violently suppressed by the police. the european union calls on the government of angola to respect the cotonou agreement and to respect and protect human rights. otherwise, we must send the message that the european union will take action.
mr president, i listened carefully to the debate which took place here, and a colleague said: 'what is the purpose of this resolution? nothing is going to change in azerbaijan. i don't agree with that at all. i believe that this resolution, which condemns the judicial atrocities in azerbaijan, is a good one. that is, to those who are dissidents, who are fighting against the totalitarianism in azerbaijan, we give a clear signal that we support them, and it is a clear and significant moral support for them. for example, a journalist like khadija ismail, who was recently sentenced to seven and a half years in a completely fabricated trial, for such people i think it is important to say clearly that the european union stands behind them, that it supports them and that we follow and support their struggle for democracy and the rule of law in azerbaijan. i think that is extremely important and that is why i support the adoption of such a resolution.
mr president, we were 'spectators' at the same event in june when, before the first european games, there was a debate in the european parliament on azerbaijan for purely political reasons and expediency. today, in the run-up to the parliamentary elections in november 2015, we have a new and politically charged resolution tabled, one that is not balanced but unilateral and has a specific political focus. unfortunately, the european parliament has gone down the wrong path, having decided not to send even observers to the parliamentary elections in november. the isolationist tactic of azerbaijan is wrong because it leads to the isolation of a state which is a strategic partner of the european union and safeguards its energy security. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in azerbaijan. who will benefit if azerbaijan closes the door to the european union? where will azerbaijan turn? i am opposed to the resolution and i support the motion to postpone the vote on this resolution.
mr president, the matter is simple from a procedural point of view because the members were not present at the debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the whole point. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the matter.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because the report talks about growth and job creation but, at the same time, proposes continuation of policies that have produced exactly the opposite results.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on investing in jobs and growth and promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union, because it talks about growth and job creation, but at the same time it proposes continuing policies that have produced exactly the opposite results.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on 'investing for jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union' for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 september 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report talks about growth and job creation, but at the same time proposes continuation of policies that have produced exactly the opposite results.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we support: the report does indeed propose measures to help the elderly and draws attention to the critical problem of low fertility.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the report on the implementation, results and overall evaluation of the 2012 european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8/9/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu should take preventive measures for the elderly, as well as measures to tackle low fertility.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because, driven by environmental concerns and global warming, certain provisions serve commercial interests.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport because, driven by environmental concerns and global warming, certain provisions have been introduced to serve commercial interests.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on 'implementing the 2011 white paper on transport: an overview and a future path towards sustainable mobility', for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8/9/2015. i would point out that the european union has not yet developed enough infrastructure to reduce road accidents. at the same time, the european union must strengthen maritime transport so that islanders, especially in the aegean, have continuous access to the mainland.
in writing. ‒ in the face of environmental concerns and global warming, certain provisions serve commercial interests.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we vote against: the report promotes discrimination on grounds of sex, abolishes any notion of meritocracy and undermines the traditional family.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because it promotes discrimination on grounds of sex, abolishes any notion of meritocracy and undermines the traditional family.
in writing. ‒ gender equality in science and academia is still, unfortunately an on-going issue. the european commission and member states still attempt to overcome this inequality. only few women reach highest posts in research and academia fields. by supporting this report, i urge the european commission and member states to improve and enforce equal treatment between men and women, especially by implementing equal-pay for equal work. furthermore, the selection process in science should be more open and more transparent. i voted in favour of this report to foster women to enter academic and research careers.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the careers of women in science and the university, and the glass ceiling they face, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 september 2015. i would point out that the commission must, through educational programmes and campaigns, break down all the stereotypes against women and encourage women to go into the scientific and academic world. finally, the member states should, by using the media, help to eliminate the stereotypes that still exist for both sexes. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the right to education is not restricted to the young, and that the right to education is not restricted to the very young.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report promotes discrimination on grounds of sex, abolishes any notion of meritocracy and undermines the traditional family.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the preparation of children and young people for the role of the worker is promoted away from the concept of the family. the aim is to promote the education of children from an early age in the broadest sense of the human sexes (lgbti).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on empowering girls in the eu through education because it promotes the preparation of children and young people for the role of the worker away from the concept of the family. the aim is to promote the education of children from an early age on the wider concept of the human sexes (lgbt).
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on empowering girls in the eu through education for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 september 2015. in addition, i would point out that all member states should contribute to the democratisation of education to ensure that gender equality is promoted and that men and women are given equal opportunities to participate in social and economic development. in addition, awareness campaigns on discrimination against women should be organised and vocational guidance services improved to reduce discrimination in the labour market. all curricula should include education on gender rights. any awareness-raising initiative on the issue of gender discrimination should be strengthened. education should break down gender stereotypes and promote women in all workplaces, thereby empowering society at large.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted against the report 'empowering girls in the eu through education', as it reflects the eu's directions in education policy that are hostile to the needs of young people and women. it conceals the core of the inequality of women in exploitative societies and that the conditions of women's participation in education, in production are determined by the interests of the capitalists, presenting solutions for supposed equality of women, through the distorted lens of interests, competitiveness and profitability of enterprises. in the report, the acute problems faced by school girls are transformed into the 'rails' on which the eu strategy is being accelerated, or their lifelong exploitation for the benefit of monopolies. the report's proposals support and broaden the eu's position on education, which prepares, 'trains' young girls to accept the work jungle, 'hunting' for skills in informal education, mobility from profession to profession and from country to country. the report promotes the evaluation of educational institutions and so-called 'entrepreneurship' education. young girls, in the name of the pseudo-politics of gender equality, are being asked to accept new forms of discrimination at the expense of the social recognition of motherhood and their special biological needs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the preparation of children and young people for the role of the worker is promoted away from the concept of the family. the aim is to promote the education of children from an early age in the broadest sense of the human sexes (lgbt).
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted against the report 'empowering girls in the eu through education', as it reflects the eu's directions in education policy that are hostile to the needs of young people and women. it conceals the core of the inequality of women in exploitative societies and that the conditions of women's participation in education, in production are determined by the interests of the capitalists, presenting solutions for supposed equality of women, through the distorted lens of interests, competitiveness and profitability of enterprises. in the report, the acute problems faced by school girls are transformed into the 'rails' on which the eu strategy is being accelerated, or their lifelong exploitation for the benefit of monopolies. the report's proposals support and broaden the eu's position on education, which prepares, 'trains' young girls to accept the work jungle, 'hunting' for skills in informal education, mobility from profession to profession and from country to country. the report promotes the evaluation of educational institutions and so-called 'entrepreneurship' education. young girls, in the name of the pseudo-politics of gender equality, are being asked to accept new forms of discrimination at the expense of the social recognition of motherhood and their special biological needs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against this report because the european parliament does not respect the swiss legislation and, even worse, does not respect the will of the swiss people, as expressed in a referendum, on the issue of the free movement of people across borders.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the eea-switzerland issue because with this report the european parliament is disrespecting the legislation of the swiss state and, even worse, disrespecting the will of the swiss people, as expressed in a referendum, on the issue of the free movement of people across borders.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report 'eea-switzerland: obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market' because the report is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu must respect the laws of the states and much more the will of the citizens as expressed in referendums.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report does not address the real causes of the problem, so the solutions it proposes do not address the root of the problem. the eu must also take action to prevent the spread of the disease, and to ensure that the disease is not spread to other countries, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because the report does not address the real causes of the problem, so the solutions it proposes do not address the root of the problem. the policy of the 'west' towards the countries of origin of the refugee flows must be radically changed, the neighbouring islamic countries (turkey, saudi arabia) must also take responsibility and, in general, the eu must stop wasting money on actions that do not tackle the root cause of the situation created with refugees.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on migration and refugees in europe because the european parliament calls, firstly, on the european commission to finally start amending the existing dublin regulation, thus showing the tendency towards abolishing dublin iii. secondly, because the european parliament calls on the member states to introduce strict criminal sanctions for trafficking and smuggling of people to and throughout europe. thirdly, because the european parliament calls on the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to convene an international conference on the refugee crisis, with the participation of the eu, the member states, un-related organisations, the united states, relevant international ngos and the arab states with the aim of establishing, inter alia, a common global humanitarian aid strategy.
in writing. the joint resolution reinforces the persecution and repression of refugees and migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the european union's external borders. accepts the creation of so-called 'hot spots' and the list of so-called 'safe countries' where there will be an unacceptable differentiation of treatment between refugees and migrants with immediate deportation of the latter, their detention in concentration camps for up to 18 months, in accordance with the 'shame directive' (2008/115), which have been overruled, military operations such as eunav medfor, the strengthening of frontex and the euro-police forces and their conversion into coast guard forces, which will multiply the human tragedies in the mediterranean. it is a matter of the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the kke has tabled a comprehensive, detailed proposal on the issue and calls on workers in greece and europe to support it, because it is the only one that can give real relief to the problem, away from the barbarity of repression and exploitation.
in writing. the joint resolution reinforces the persecution and repression of refugees and migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the european union's external borders. accepts the creation of so-called 'hot spots' and the list of so-called 'safe countries' where there will be an unacceptable differentiation of treatment between refugees and migrants with immediate deportation of the latter, their detention in concentration camps for up to 18 months, in accordance with the 'shame directive' (2008/115), which have been overruled, military operations such as eunav medfor, the strengthening of frontex and the euro-police forces and their conversion into coast guard forces, which will multiply the human tragedies in the mediterranean. it is a matter of the european parliament, the european parliament, the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the kke has tabled a comprehensive, detailed proposal on the issue and calls on workers in greece and europe to support it, because it is the only one that can give real relief to the problem, away from the barbarity of repression and exploitation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because the solution to this longstanding dispute will not come through new funding to ngos, which often have a controversial role and action.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because i do not believe that the solution to this longstanding dispute can be found in new funding for ngos, which often have a controversial role and action.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the middle east peace process because it contributes to global stability.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the union, once again, is pretending to act as a self-proclaimed defender of the law, when in reality it is simply trying to influence the flow of developments in this country, which is currently in russia's sphere of influence, in its own interest.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the reports on the situation in belarus because, once again, the union appears to be acting as a self-proclaimed defender of the law, when in reality it is simply trying to influence the course of developments in this country, which is currently in russia's sphere of influence, in its own interests.
in writing. ‒ belarus should take measures to protect fundamental rights and respect the rule of law.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against this report because it too is a continuation of the logic that encourages mobility and is therefore harmful to our country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because it is a continuation of the logic in favour of mobility and is therefore harmful to our country.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the as i said in my speech to the european parliament on 9 september 2015, 'mercantilist' austerity has filled europe with armies of unemployed people, now numbering 24 million. unemployment rates are running high. at the same time, however, there are large differences in unemployment rates from one country to another. in greece, which has been impoverished by the memorandum, the figure is 26%, while in germany it is only 5%. youth unemployment in greece has exceeded 53% and spain is following suit. at the same time, two million jobs remain unfilled in the european union because of a mismatch between qualifications and labour market needs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because we are against mobility which will turn the weak countries of the union into economically dead zones.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because i am against mobility which turns the weak countries of the union into economically dead zones.
in writing. ‒ as i said in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 september 2015, in order to create a competitive labour market, education, training and the labour market need to be directly linked. more public and private investment is needed. investment in innovative sectors and strengthening of social services are needed. the european union must not be left in the lurch by the economic crisis, but must be able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report does not give the true extent of the transfer of national sovereign rights of the member states to the eu by the mandatory application of european law. in addition, the eu imposes the transposition of laws into national law on a case-by-case basis and, basically, in areas of interest to it so that it controls the member states and does not help citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against because the report does not give the full meaning of the transfer of national sovereignty rights of the member states to the eu by the mandatory application of european legislation. in addition, the eu imposes the transposition of laws into national law on a case-by-case basis and, basically, in areas of interest to it so that it controls the member states and does not help citizens.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the as i said in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session on 10 september 2015, as professor of european union institutions at the university, i attached great importance to the role of the commission, because the commission is the guardian of the application of community law. but there are now some serious issues, arising mainly from the memoranda applied in some countries, which have the effect of violating important elements of european union law and, in particular, violating rights relating to social issues. the commission has been asked to intervene in these matters, but because it is also a member of the troika, it is in a conflict of interest. the commission is not applying community law correctly because it is itself, as a member of the troika, participating in the infringement of community law. this is a very important issue, which i raised the other day when i spoke about the reply given to me by mr moscovici, who said that the european social charter is not binding within the european union! i ask you to consider this matter.
madam president, 500,000 people have crossed into europe this year and we are told that 2.5 million are waiting on the shores of turkey to cross into europe. we strongly support the commission's proposal. the decision to relocate 120,000 refugees with a fair distribution among the member states is binding. we believe, however, that the mechanism should be permanent and binding. we all have a responsibility, a great responsibility on equal terms, without exception. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we are not dealing with numbers but with the souls of desperate people seeking a decent living. in any case, we are all jointly responsible and the member states who are divided do not realise that the european union is breathing horizontally from the same principles and that is why there should be compliance. since we are talking about people, we must all be equally responsible to them: the responsibility cannot be allocated "a la carte".
madam president, the humanitarian crisis of the refugee wave requires a humanitarian european solution. as a european citizen, i am ashamed of the failure of the council of ministers and i stress that it is time for leaders, heads of state, to stop hiding behind their ministers or we will hear fascist cries like those of mrs le pen trying to win votes over human lives, while the aegean and the mediterranean are becoming a graveyard for thousands of young children and their families. it is unacceptable and inhuman for europe to be absent, to postpone, to cancel the schengen treaty, to build walls because a few governments of the right and the far right are blocking the necessary decision. the european parliament must take the initiative now to find a solution, otherwise it will be too late tomorrow. my country, greece, cannot withstand all this pressure on its own. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
since the beginning of the year, two hundred and sixty thousand refugees have entered greece via turkey. but what does the council of ministers of the interior do? he washes his hands as pontius pilate. we need a permanent distribution key for refugees in the european union and not a temporary relocation mechanism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not just the people who have entered greece and the european union since 15 august. and this must be accepted not only by hungary but also by germany. but, ladies and gentlemen, what is germany doing? all miracles, unfortunately, last three days. the same applies to the so-called "guest" of mrs merkel, who, after inviting the poor refugees from syria to come to germany, suspended schengen after the photos and closed the german border with austria. in fact, to send a message to the rest of the refugees, he opened the former nazi concentration camp in buchenwald to accommodate some. this is unacceptable.
madam president, the eradication of poverty is the central objective of the united nations summit on sustainable development. but how can poverty and hunger be eradicated when the overwhelming part of the state budgets of countries in africa, asia, latin america and europe is going to the servicing of public debt? a debt that was not created to serve social needs, but to enrich international usurers. the only way to achieve the goal of eradicating poverty is through the process of writing off the distressed debt. the un general assembly voted a few days ago in favour of a resolution setting out the basic rules for restructuring the public debt. the european union, and countries such as greece, ireland and spain, have unfortunately abstained rather than vote on the resolution. however, the debt audit and the consequent write-off of the subordinated debt is provided for within the euro area by regulation no 472/2013 and should finally be applied to greece. so let us cancel the shameful debt of all countries!
gue/ngl), in writing. the draft un general assembly declaration, to be debated at its next session, sets ambitious goals for the sustainable development of humanity, such as eradicating poverty and hunger, protecting the natural environment and promoting peace in human societies. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. with today's levels of technology and economic activity, we need two or more planets the size of earth and the natural resources to sustain the current population in the long term. if the un member states are serious about their grandiose declarations on sustainable development, then we need to limit births in the third world by empowering women, informing them about preventive methods and facilitating access to them. and yet, it is necessary for economically developed countries to finance the creation of basic social security systems in the poorest third world countries so that families there will stop seeing childbearing as a substitute for old-age insurance.
mr president, one of the objectives of the summer energy package is to empower energy consumers. the main issue for consumers is energy poverty. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the shrinking of incomes, combined with rising energy prices, has put a double burden on the greeks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not based on the principle of subsidiarity. at the same time, the syriza-anel coalition government, together with new democracy-pasok and potami, with the third memorandum, and under the cloak of the troika, proceeded to sell off the country's energy silver and are already embarking on the privatization of admie and the sale of the public shares in hellenic petroleum. these privatisations will lead to further increases in energy prices and to a worsening of energy poverty in greece and therefore must be stopped.
mr vice-president of the commission, the energy package is indeed an opportunity to redesign the electricity market, to upgrade energy efficiency in europe and to review the emissions trading system in order to strengthen the balance between industrial production and the reduction of greenhouse gases. but i would like to make two comments. the first is that the commission must monitor very closely the harmonization of the countries in the single energy market. and this concerns first and foremost my country, greece, which must on monday, after the elections of 20 september, proceed immediately to liberalize the energy market so that prices can fall and consumers can have cheaper electricity. to put an end to the practices of the past that prevented private individuals from entering the energy market and generating electricity. the other point, mr president, concerns the competitiveness of european industry. if we look at the parameters of the emissions trading system, we may have the opposite of the desired result.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the recent demonstrations by farmers throughout europe have clearly shown, agriculture is a major issue that must concern us all. the european union's participation in the international economic and commercial system condemns farmers to poverty and makes national economies fragile. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not sold at prices that are too low for european producers. at the same time, excessive sanctions against russia are hampering any export activity. this situation is expected to worsen even further when ttip is signed. the failure of the quota system has also contributed to the decline in agricultural production. the imposition of a savage taxation and high vat on greek farmers, as required by the third most onerous memorandum imposed on my country, is giving the first shot to the primary sector in greece. the only solution is to abolish quotas immediately, to allow farmers to produce what the european people really need and to impose high duties on all agricultural products imported from third countries immediately.
mr president, in greece the continuing crisis in the agricultural sector has destroyed the farmers financially. the governments of the memoranda, at the behest of the troika, overtaxed the greek peasants. the tax raid has been extended illegally to the community aid they receive. in the last five years, the income of greek farmers has fallen by 1.5 billion euros, while the taxes paid by them have increased by 150%. at the same time, the crisis caused by the russian embargo has devastated the rural sector economically. in addition, the greek farmers, impoverished by the memorandum, are unable to cope financially as they were tested by last year's natural disasters. the plaque on the grave of the greek farmers was erected by the syriza-anel coalition government, which, with the support of new democracy, pasok and potamios, increased the tax on agricultural oil and the intolerable tax on farmers. the european union must therefore take immediate action to deal with the crisis in the agricultural sector and finance mainly small and mediumsized farmers throughout europe and of course in my country, greece.
we are discussing today the situation of the many refugees who are heading for the european union in nightmarish circumstances and we seem to have tacitly accepted the refugee status of all these people. but refugee status is not a natural development. people from syria, iraq and elsewhere are being forced to flee their homes because of the armed conflict that has been going on there for years with the complicity of western states on both sides of the atlantic. we need to address the root of the problem. the european union must help syrian society in particular to find a peaceful solution to its internal contradictions and, of course, to eradicate the cancer of the islamic state once and for all. the west must rid itself of the dangerous illusion that it can impose its own model of governance everywhere and limit itself to the search for stability and peaceful settlement of differences.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2016 because i disagree with many issues, but most of all with the union's approach to europe's big problems. i believe that the solutions lie in the exact opposite direction from that towards which the union is moving.
in writing. – i voted against the new cwp. instead of helping workers, the work programme is all about making it easier for companies at the expense of workers’ rights and conditions. we question the new commission’s priorities as set out to meps in its annual plan of action. we work for and demand solutions towards growth, a sustainable debt direction, and a strong welfare state.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the commission's work programme for 2016 because, on the one hand, it promotes ttip as an opportunity for more growth and strengthening the labour market, whereas the truth is that the risks for greece and the greeks are enormous, since ttip puts at risk various greek agricultural products registered as protected designations of origin exported to the usa, threatening to flood europe with genetically modified food. the ttip will completely deregulate the european agricultural market and greek olive oil will be irreparably damaged. ttip abolishes the existing system of judicial protection with us multinationals enjoying a right of retaliation. on the other hand, the commission's work programme does not deal with the issue of immigration. more than 230,000 refugees have flooded into greece since the beginning of 2015, with the situation remaining explosive and dramatic. immediate measures are therefore required, such as the abolition of the "dublin iii" regulation that turns greece into a warehouse of souls; the application of the clause on the distribution of all refugees and illegal immigrants at the level of the european union; measures against turkey, which supports the slave trade, as revealed by hurriyet on 29/5/2015; and a brave increase in european union funds to greece.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the council decision to adopt provisional measures in the field of international protection for italy, greece and hungary. the text is unrealistic, it creates more problems and solves none, and most importantly it is all about the money that the host countries will receive.
in writing. – in light of the dramatic increase of refugee arrivals over the summer and the increased pressure put on the commission for more solidarity, we clearly need to push for a more european solution. this is the reason i voted favourably, giving a political signal that we support the commission’s proposal and are working hard in this direction on this multidimensional issue.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the council decision to adopt provisional measures in the field of international protection for italy, greece and hungary, because this gives a european dimension to the migration and refugee problem facing greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of european integration. secondly, the application of the clause on the distribution of all refugees and illegal immigrants at european union level. third, measures against turkey which supports slave trade rings, as revealed by hurriyet on 29 may 2015; the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the greek government has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the greek people are not left in the lurch.
the question is "blue card". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not happening, it's not real. there is no turkish minority in greece. there is only a muslim minority and no money needs to be given to it. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, first of all we must make it clear that the increased pre-financing we are talking about concerns investment for the profitability of businesses, and is the other side of the anti-people policy of the barbaric third memorandum which our people are paying dearly for in greece, with new barbaric measures by the government and the quartet, the demolition of the social security system, industrial relations, tax evasion and privatisations. the funds of the european union are collected by draining the blood of the people, they come from the state budget which redistributes resources at the expense of the popular families, in favour of the monopolies, their competitiveness and profitability. even the minimum funds for employment are translated into subsidies for the enterprises, and become a vehicle for imposing conditions of work in the galley for a few months, which recycle unemployment and are also a tool for the elimination of small farmers. a clear indication of where this money is going is the funds, which were even absorbed 90% in the period 2007-2013, which were being dismantled from the monopolies at the same time that the working class family went bankrupt. the only way for the people is to organise the struggle in a line of rupture with the european union and the monopolies to put obstacles in the way of the measures, to recover the losses, to open the way for the people to become the owner of the wealth they produce.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, today we are taking the final steps of a road race, a sprint that we have undertaken here in the european parliament, to finally stimulate the greek economy directly with a total initial benefit of two billion euros. i am sure that this is an exception, an exception for greece, and we have heard objections, objections from governments, objections from colleagues in the committee on regional development, which are reasonable. why should we give greece an exception and not pay the national contribution? why should we emphasize pre-financing when others need money and the greek government is not in a hurry? the answer comes from what greece has experienced and is experiencing. greece, my country, has lost 30% of its gross domestic product during the economic crisis. it is experiencing war conditions and at the same time prolonged political instability has extended uncertainty at all levels. now that the new government has been formed, it is necessary to explain that the support of the european union is conditional on the unwavering implementation of structural reforms. tomorrow we shall vote on the amendment of the rules of procedure, and the european parliament will have shown its solidarity with our country once again in record time. after that, it is the sole responsibility of the greek government to take the reins, to run the reforms, to take advantage of the opportunity that is being given to greece. the fight to restart the greek economy is a marathon and we must keep our eyes on greece. we must see how the reforms are progressing, and know at all times what is happening there.
madam president, at a time when the troika has turned greece into a social graveyard, the european commission has finally decided to amend regulation 1303 of 2013 on the structural funds in order to address the liquidity and lack of available resources problems facing greece due to the memoranda that imposed a violent fiscal adjustment and reduced public investment. the european union is not unconditional in this respect either, since it is accompanied by: 1) the unwavering implementation of memorandum 3 imposing tough measures of €13 billion over the next two years; 2) the looting of public property of €50 billion; and 3) the refugee issue. the creditors are therefore sharing greece's clothes in order to allow the smooth financing of the esf. so, with one hand, the european union is giving erdf funds, which greece is entitled to in any case, and with the other hand it is taking back double and triple. moreover, according to european commission figures, more than 40% of the european funds allocated to greece are directly returned to the countries of the european union's hard core, such as the netherlands, for the purchase of industrial equipment, raw materials, consumer goods and so on. the european funds must therefore be invested in productive investment, in the primary sector, in new technologies, in infrastructure, in industrial development and in tourism. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the esf should focus its financed actions on investments in sectors that bring domestic added value to greece. but in order for greece to enter the highway of new growth, it must throw the troika out of the country and rid itself of the burden of the humiliating debt that must be written off. finally, i would point out to my bulgarian colleague that in greece there is no turkish minority, but a religious, muslim minority, which enjoys its rights unhindered, unlike the greek minority in istanbul and other parts of turkey, which is severely repressed by the turkish authorities.
madam president, the commission's proposal is a small relief to my country, to greece and to the greek people, who have suffered for years from a great recession, great unemployment, great poverty and a huge reduction in investment. and it is good that almost all the political groups, with the exception of the far-right eurogroup, support this process. the commission proposal, which the european parliament has approved, will not give my country a single euro more than the community budget, but will simply make it easier to get investment in. and the plan of the tsipras government is 100 billion investments in the next few years, not only public but also private, and many reforms to fight tax evasion, corruption, the client state. but we must adopt this proposal as it stands tomorrow, and that is why i want to say that the amendments put forward hypocritically by mrs le pen's eurogroup are not in the interests of the greek people. if they are approved, it will be to stop this positive process.
the hard austerity measures imposed on greece over the last five years have impoverished the greek people, dramatically increased unemployment, especially among young people, and generally destroyed the economic and social fabric of the country. the commission's proposal to take measures on development and investment in greece is therefore encouraging. but some questions arise: how is it possible for investment and jobs to exist in greece when there is no growth in the primary sector because there are not the appropriate funds to be allocated to it? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the programme to include the social and economic aspects of the problem of unemployment. c. how will youth unemployment be tackled when there are no jobs and the money for them is being spent and spent on various companies teaching them things that are doubtful whether they will use and need? finally, how is it possible for young people to find work in greece when hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are pouring into greece from third countries, including, as mr juncker said, 'talented young people' who must also find work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the problematic and anti-development regulation 1303/2013 for greece was decided on 12 july, when the greek government signed the third memorandum, a memorandum with the same destructive and anti-development logic as the others, a fact that the european commission's report does not mention. how did we get to this point: i would remind you that until the third memorandum was signed, the european commission had illegally and arbitrarily deprived the greek government and the greek economy of all forms of financing, with the result that public and private investors were deprived of resources and projects were delayed. today, mr vice-president, and i am speaking in the presence of commissioner crețu in greece, it seems that the request for an extension to allow the completion of the work of the previous period is being rejected and at the same time this amendment to the regulation, which is in fact the product of blackmail, is being presented as an expression of solidarity. the problem of cohesion policy is not solved by such policies, and this concerns all countries. the community must therefore pursue a genuine policy of cohesion and convergence of economies and societies.
madam president, the measures announced are in the right direction and at the same time they are a reparation for the disastrous policies implemented in greece, but also for the fact that all these stereotypes and racist attacks have been made against greece and i have unfortunately heard some of your colleagues, shame on you, repeat the same things today, about corrupt people, about pensioners, about all of that. don't you see that if you put the jews in the place of the greeks, you arrive at other situations and go to other times? greece needs more help, as do other countries in southern europe which are in trouble and need help, also because we have a refugee problem which is too big and also because it needs debt restructuring. and as for the funds, fear not, the present government will make the best use of them. it doesn't act like the previous governments, your allies, many times. he will use them with dignity, honesty and merit.
the question is "blue card". mrs gräßle, from what you have said, if i understand correctly, you disagree with the positive attitude of the european people's party in supporting this proposal. am i getting this right ? are you against the positive attitude of the european people's party? and two: the european parliament delegation that went to athens and inspected the progress of some projects found that there were long delays in these projects, which relate to the new democracy and pasok period. why don't you report this? until when are we going to look at issues through the colored glasses of party expediency?
the commission's proposal and the urgent vote tomorrow are, i think, self-evident, because europe is finally obliged to show solidarity with greece and to extend this solidarity, which was the cornerstone of its creation, to other countries as well. i am sorry to note here today that in addition to the strong support for the motion there are also dissenting voices who do not seem to know greek history. a colleague of mine even discovered the turkish minority in greece, perhaps confusing it with the discovery of running water on the planet mars. we are tired, ladies and gentlemen, of the greek people being accused, at a time when scandals are taking place in powerful countries, of being corrupt, of being a slave to interests, of having interests only behind the surface. i insist on the positive side of this story and of course the greek government, which i was recently elected to, has a great responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope that the greek government will understand that this small aid, financial aid, must be the beginning of a much larger effort to correct all the bad texts in my country and, i am sorry to say, many times in your countries.
madam president, i think that the european commission's initiative, supported by the political groups, is in the right direction. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not reflected in the capital needs of the bank, but rather in the capital needs of the bank. the financial facilities will not work unless the policy is changed and the banking system is operated effectively. from january to august 2015, greek banks lost 40 billion euros in deposits, a quarter of the total, because of failed economic experiments by the radical left. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. many of these programmes relate to the support of enterprises in the tourism sector. the greek government is raising vat on catering and vat on hotel accommodation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the more favourable financing of greece by the european union and, of course, by the taxpayers of the european union, is a substantial act of solidarity which, however, does not solve the problem. it simply provides time to improve the economic policy in greece.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the support of an agreement with the greek government which has accepted and embraced a series of reforms which have been pending for five, ten or even twenty years. after wandering in the desert of no-euro, no-europe assumptions, the greek government has landed in reality, declared that it embraces reforms and promised to work together with the european side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will be able to accept them. but there is another aspect, an aspect put forward by the greek government itself, namely, a tool which will help to make the evaluation procedures, by the single support mechanism, open to the european peoples, through the european parliament and the conference of presidents has already accepted it, and mr schulz has already taken it up and is working with mr juncker on how our parliament can participate, to be a tool which may not let things happen which were denounced in the past for inequalities and new demands, but at the same time to impose, to control and to help support the reforms that greece needs.
madam president, they say that the european union is an organisation that always takes two steps forward and one step back. in the case of greece, it has made a leap forward. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. i would like to thank in particular the european commission, mr juncker, the vice-president present, mr dombrovskis, the european council, the european parliament's committees on budget, employment and fisheries, all the political forces in the european parliament and the vast majority of my fellow members in the european parliament. help is really invaluable. the aid to greece from the european funds is more than valuable for a country which has huge problems and huge liquidity problems. a country that wants, asks and sees solidarity from its partners in the european union in a difficult economic situation, especially now that it is hosting hundreds of thousands of migrants and refugees. and something about my colleague from bulgaria, mr torvalds: the treaty of lausanne of 1923 speaks of a muslim minority, and his own country has voted for it. a country that oppresses a minority is a country that does not elect three muslim members of parliament to the commit tee on budgets.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the green light for 100% financing of the esf projects - exclusively for greece - is a unique opportunity for our country. these funds, together with development measures, will substantially support the greek economy and will be able to generate significant additional investments for the coming years, paving the way for the rapid implementation of the employment and growth programme in greece. this measure translates into an immediate additional liquidity of approximately eur 500 million and savings for the greek budget of eur 2 billion. we must not forget that greece is the only country in the eu still reeling from economic recession, while unemployment, and especially youth unemployment, is at an unimaginable level. this exception for 100% financing will enable our country not only to make the most of the last euro of european funding, but also to contribute to increasing employment and to the relief of the weaker social strata affected by the crisis by the targeted channelling of these funds.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is particularly valuable in a world moving towards multi-level governance and citizen participation. but to have resources in local government, the budgets of developing countries must not go to debt service. the most important thing is therefore to cancel the debts of the developing countries. the second is to use regulation 472/2013 to audit the debt in the european union countries and in particular in greece and to write off the defaulted debt. finally, i should like to say to my colleague, mr lucke, about the 35 billion that of these, 15 billion euros for greece is for supporting farmers with subsidies and the rest is given on the condition that, dear colleague, germany will also receive... (the president interrupts the speaker).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the legislation on mortgage loans differs between the member states of the european union, with the result that there is a differentiation in terms of consumer protection and debt settlement. in spain, as in greece, there has been a great deal of failure to inform borrowers adequately by the banks and the terms of the contracts violate the rights of borrowers as consumers. the situation in spain has worsened since the financial crisis, with at least 700,000 citizens falling victim to subprime lending, and over 350,000 evictions recorded in the last six years. at the same time, the homes that were knocked out were returned to the ownership of the banks, which are known to have been bailed out by the money of the european union citizens themselves, in greece, red housing loans reached 21 billion euros. there, the banks began selling the red loans to the well-known crows of the world market to the aggressive hedge funds that are preparing to hammer, instead of a lens board, the homes of the greek people. in fact, memorandum 3 also lays down express procedures for auctions. over 500,000 greek borrowers are now in danger of losing their homes. also, 70,000 greeks who have taken out swiss franc mortgages are in danger of losing their own homes. i am therefore asking the european commission, in cooperation with the central bank, to take measures to protect the first home and to stop the auctions of houses in greece and spain. thank you, sir.
madam president, hundreds of thousands of citizens in spain, greece and other member states, such as bulgaria, have been deceived in their attempt to obtain a right to housing with a bank loan. a right recognized as inalienable as early as 1948 in the founding declaration of the united nations. and yet, 67 years later, the commission pretends not to listen. we have important institutional control instruments, such as the consumer protection directives and the azzi case ruling of the european court of justice. the 398,000 evictions - since 2008 in spain - show that the laws protecting borrowers from bank abuse are not being checked. and the complaints we are receiving from bulgaria are making us wonder whether the european banking authority is doing the right thing. in greece, the 'red loans' look like a volcano about to explode. 260,000 borrowers in the red, most of them unemployed, with no income, are fighting to see if they will have the same fate as the spanish after the end of capital controls, perhaps even sooner. when refugees leave their homes at the mercy of war and seek safety in the heart of europe, europe itself cannot provide housing for its citizens. the commission must show that it does not regard them as 'little letters' in banking contracts. let it exercise serious control by breathing life into the victims of the banking system.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are 70,000 families in danger of losing their homes. i have not heard you say anything about this, so we must take it seriously and i am pointing this out because a particular political group is initiating a separate vote on two amendments which i have tabled on the protection of greek borrowers in swiss francs, and they are important. in the case of the hacking company, the unacceptable thing is that there is a company that makes software for hacking. this must be denounced, because it must not be allowed to happen. the second point is that this company is giving away or has been stolen this software, which is now reaching organizations, countries, which are violating human rights and the commission should take serious action in this respect, so that we do not have a violation of human rights with software which is based purely on hacking.
mr president, i have stressed, many times in the past, the union's responsibilities in creating and sustaining this unprecedented humanitarian crisis in relation to refugees. but despite the hundreds of deaths europe is actually refusing to deal with it. since the beginning of the year, greece and italy have taken in more than 500,000 refugees, and by the end of 2016, the un high commissioner for refugees expects them to exceed one and a half million. and we are talking today about the relocation of just 160,000 in europe, in a divided europe, with member states erecting walls and wanting to go to court. in the meantime, we have taken no measures to ensure safe access for refugees and we are counting daily casualties in the mediterranean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the crisis. the stakes of dealing with the humanitarian crisis are high. there is no longer the dilemma of what kind of europe we want. the refugee crisis is testing us all. if we fail, there will be no europe.
mr president, the greek people are once again experiencing the anti-social attack of the usurious creditors and the troika who imposed the third memorandum. a memorandum that cuts wages and pensions, dissolves the social security system, takes a tax hit on the private property of the middle class, increases taxes at the expense of the peasants and prepares the plundering of public property. for our part, we have shown our consistent and unwavering anti-memorandum action in the european parliament and in greece, and we will continue our unwavering struggle against the troika and the greek memorandum quintet of the parties syriza, anel, new democracy, pasok, potami, which voted for the iii memorandum. the citizens who oppose the memorandum, whom i represent here in the european parliament, declare that we will, as always, give our support to the new social struggles. we therefore call on the thousands of consistent activists of the anti-memorandum, patriotic, democratic arc to join us and to join the ranks of our political movement of anti-memorandum citizens. the race continues.
mr president, a number of traditional products based on traditional know-how and techniques are part of the cultural heritage of the european union and contribute to strengthening the local economy, supporting employment and the activity of small and mediumsized enterprises. measures must therefore be taken to protect non-agricultural products from unfair competition in order to preserve traditional skills and the reputation of a geographical indication which is an intangible collective good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must not go to the other extreme, because the measures recently taken by the commission to impose a more stringent excise duty on traditional greek drinks such as chicory and tsipouro are disrupting viticulture, leading to unemployment among winegrowers and creating problems for the local community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the overcapacity of the agricultural sector.
mr president, by the decisions of this parliament, the european union is keeping the large number of refugees and migrants in the hell of the imperialist wars, the fires of which have been kindled by the union and its allies, nato, the european union and the other imperialists, in their competition for the interests of the monopolies. as for the refugees who arrive at the hot spots via the claw of the circuits, they are examined and only those necessary for the capitalist labour market are selected. the european union and its governments have decided to repress and deport most of the others. as for the dublin regulation and the other european union repression mechanisms, the rapid intervention forces, they live, reign and are strengthened and lead to new hundreds of deaths, turning greece into a refugee concentration camp. the kke calls on the people, the workers' and people's movement, to strengthen solidarity with refugees and migrants, against the policy of the european union and to demand, among other things, their direct transfer from the points of entry to their final destination countries, at the expense of the european union and the un.
mr president, there is no doubt that the european union is hosting a huge number of migrants and refugees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the baker from kos, an island in eastern europe, was mentioned by president juncker in his case. he is a symbol of the principles and values of the european union, of the peoples of europe. the solution is not easy. the european union must act proactively, turning its attention to transit countries such as turkey. the commission's attention to the countries of origin of migrants, and of course at the operational level, requires better border surveillance, the detection of illegal migrant flows and the strengthening of frontex. the european union is willing and able to meet this great challenge successfully. we have confidence in you, mr juncker and mr tusk. we believe that europe, even in this great crisis, will do what it must do, based on history and principles. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, thousands of refugees are flooding southern europe, and especially greece, which cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. to date, more than 260,000 refugees have entered our homeland. the problem is now at its most serious and urgent. the european union must be able to take action to promote peace in the middle east and north africa. secondly, to tell turkey that it must stop trading in the plight of refugees and stop supporting the slave trade. thirdly, to abolish dublin iii, which is turning greece into a warehouse of souls. fourthly, the introduction of a clause for the distribution of refugees among all the member states of the european union, according to the gdp, the size and the population of each member state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, everyone must understand that the protection of the greek borders is the exclusive responsibility of greece and that we are not going to cede our sovereign rights to protect the greek borders to turkey or the european union.
mr president, for the eighth time in this chamber we are discussing the refugee problem as if the displacement of people were a natural phenomenon, like sunshine or rain. it is not a natural phenomenon, it is the result of wars, and in these wars, especially in the war in syria, which has been going on for more than four years, the governments of western countries, both the united states and some of the major european countries, are complicit, and they cannot get rid of the obsessive idea that they must impose regimes of their choice on the whole world, even outside the west. it is clear that the west's attempt to strengthen the syrian opposition in order to overthrow the assad regime has failed and has led to the strengthening and the harvesting of the islamic state phenomenon. we have to realize that there is no solution in syria without assad, and move realistically to uproot the islamic state, to stop the refugee crisis.
the ppe group has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, our discussion of refugees at this moment is directly linked to the previous debate. the european union has the knife and the sword to solve this problem. the solution must be found at european level, but the solution is first and foremost a political one. i say this because president tusk has already spoken about the solidarity of the member states which must be demonstrated and, rightly, about the protection of borders, about the necessary respect for the rules of the european union. the problem cannot be solved, however, without direct cooperation with the countries of origin. you know very well that the european union has a leading role to play in the causes of this refugee crisis, but first and foremost, a memorandum of understanding with the countries of transit of these people, and i am referring to turkey. you know very well that yesterday president erdoğan criticized us for not being able to accept a humanitarian crisis of 250,000 people on our soil, when he is hosting two million, forgetting, obviously, that this number of refugees is heavily funded and forgetting, obviously, that there are readmission agreements with the european union, since 2011, and with greece since 2014, which are not being respected. the european union, europe and the member states cannot solve a problem which is primarily and principally about human beings and their survival unless everyone takes responsibility.
mr president, a year ago, commissioner avramopoulos said that the states of europe would no longer be castles and he was talking about a possible review of the schengen and dublin ii treaties. one year later, he must not be satisfied, proud of the results of his immigration policy. hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants have flooded european countries, the hundreds in the mediterranean are constantly increasing, and jihadists are taking advantage of the migration flows to infiltrate europe. authorities in countries of entry are unable to control the hordes of arrivals, let alone provide for the real refugees, and countries like germany, austria and slovenia have reintroduced border controls, while others are building fences and using their armed forces in the battle to enforce order and security. i think that the commission has a duty to do more than just to give the european parliament a chance to express its views. europe must realise that it must stand with the countries fighting the islamic state. it must force turkey to stop exploiting the illegal immigrants - and with eu funding - who pass through its territory, and as the first muslim country of entry and neighbour of syria, to take over the processing of asylum applications, in accordance with international law and the un high commissioner's regulations.
mr president, the european union's handling of the refugee crisis to date has been evasive and hypocritical. the european union's leadership is moving more in the direction of repression and less in the direction of solidarity, and this is maintaining the conditions that have turned the mediterranean, the aegean, into floating cemeteries. the european union has been reduced to a dismal role, trading human lives, refusing to face an explosive problem with humanitarian dimensions. mr vice-president, it takes courageous decisions to create open reception structures and to defend the right of refugees to reach european destinations safely. the persistence of the dublin system will lead to the further trapping of hundreds of thousands of refugees, mainly in greece. what needs to be done today is to abolish the dublin regulations and replace them with a pact of solidarity in managing migration flows, to set up european application and migration centres close to conflict zones and to change the character of frontex.
mr president, the situation of the thousands of refugees flooding greece and the rest of europe is desperate. the refugee waves are increasing and the misery will grow as long as the war in syria continues, as long as the european union tolerates and allows isis to continue its criminal work. the humanitarian crisis, however, is not limited to refugees. it is also affecting the greek people, who, having been impoverished by the memoranda and the troika, are no longer able to take in more refugees. the troika, however, continues to impoverish the greek people with the third memorandum, and while the greek people who are receiving the huge waves of refugees should have been relieved, while the memorandum should have been abolished and the abominable debt cancelled, you, the members of the troika and the commission, continue to press, together with the eurogroup, for greece to implement the third memorandum and turn greece into a social graveyard. this has to stop right now.
mr president, the response to the problem of refugees and immigration is inadequate and unequal as far as the member states are concerned. of the 2.4 billion euros approved by the european commission in the relevant programmes in recent weeks, only 470 million were approved for greece. this amount, although it seems large in absolute numbers, is only one fifth of the total, at a time when greece, from the beginning of 2015 to mid-september, has received about 310,000 registered people out of a total of about 430,000 for the entire union. in other words, greece receives two thirds of all refugee and migrant flows and on the other hand only one fifth of the funds allocated for this purpose. we must change these proportions.
gue/ngl), in writing. the tragic and critical nature of the situation precludes any waste of time for in-depth political analysis and technical approaches. greece, which is experiencing the worst of the economic crisis, continues almost alone to receive thousands of refugees every day. and despite the acute economic and social problems it faces, it welcomes them without preferences, quotas, or sorting, without any exception or separation. this is the reality. but in fact all these thousands, millions of impoverished refugees are coming and waiting here outside the european parliament. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. and the people in charge are discussing, safely and remotely, how many of them will be given the mark on the hand that will lead to their death. and because they refer to numbers instead of people they think it's not their own finger that will point to the one who won't live. and they want us to be complicit. discussions and decisions on quotas, acceptable or not, legal or illegal, refugees, "safe" or non-origin if possible!!! - simply mean death for a few thousand people. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the responsibility is now personal and belongs to each of us.
in writing. ‒ ratification of the protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in protecting the rights of victims of crime across the eu. the ratification of the protocol will also make it easier to prosecute traffickers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the ilo convention on forced labour, as ratification of the protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of the rights of victims of crime across the eu. in addition, ratification of the protocol will make it easier to prosecute traffickers.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i vote in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the protocol of 2014 to the forced or compulsory labour convention, 1930, of the international labour organisation, as regards articles 1 to 4 of the protocol on matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as the protocol seeks to fill implementation gaps and to make progress in: (a) preventing trafficking in human beings for labour exploitation and (b) protecting and compensating victims of forced labour. the protocol also requires ilo member states to develop, in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations, a national policy and action plan for the effective and permanent abolition of forced labour. in addition, focusing on victims, that protocol provides that effective measures are to be taken to identify, release, protect, rehabilitate and rehabilitate them, accompanied by other forms of assistance and support. finally, the protocol lays down legal obligations for the ratifying states.
in writing. ‒ ratification of the protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in protecting the rights of victims of crime across the eu. the ratification of the protocol will also make it easier to prosecute traffickers.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the recommendation on the ilo convention on forced labour: judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which aims to prevent trafficking in human beings for labour exploitation and to protect and compensate victims of forced labour. we need effective measures to combat forced labour and ratification of this protocol will make it easier to prosecute traffickers. it is a shame for all of us that millions of people around the world are still subjected to forced labour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of the inclusion of 4-methylamfetamine in control measures because i believe that any new psychotropic substance should be subject to control and risk assessment and the results of the controls should be disseminated as information among member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures, because this report strengthens the powers of the european parliament by asking it to be consulted again if the council intends to make substantial changes to the text.
in writing. ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of subjecting 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures because i believe that any new psychotropic substance should be subject to control and risk assessment and the results of the controls should be disseminated as information among the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision to subject 5-[2-aminopropyl]indol to control measures, because this report strengthens the powers of the european parliament by asking it to be recalled to give its opinion in the event that the council intends to make substantial amendments to the text.
in writing. ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against report a8-0264/2015, because every new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the listing of substances: 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n- ((2-methoxybenzyl) phenylethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n- [[1-dimethylamine) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (mdpv) and 2-[[3-methoxyphenyl) 2-[[ethylamine) cyclohexyl (methoxethylamine) in control measures, as this report strengthens the powers of the european parliament after it seeks to recall the european parliament's opinion in the event that the council proposes to make substantive amendments to the text.
in writing. ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the inclusion of 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 in control measures. i believe that every new psychoactive substance should be subject to control and risk assessment and the results of the controls should be disseminated as information among the member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision to subject 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) to control measures, because this report strengthens the powers of the european parliament by asking for the european parliament to be recalled if the council intends to make substantial changes to the text.
in writing. ‒ each new psychotropic substance must be subject to control, risk assessment and the results of controls disseminated as information among member states.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i welcome the adoption of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in response to the disasters suffered by the people of evros and central macedonia last february. the report authorises the granting of financial aid of eur 9.9 million for the rehabilitation of public buildings, private dwellings, businesses, farms and cultural heritage sites affected. a few days after the devastating floods, i had submitted a written question to the european commission focusing on improving the infrastructure in the evros area so that next year we could avoid the flooding of the river which caused very serious problems last year.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when there are reasons to compensate countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ my vote is in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund: disasters in bulgaria and greece in 2015. the eu must be flexible when it comes to compensating countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. – bulgaria and greece were struck by natural disasters in 2015, severe winter conditions and floods in evros and central greece. greece and bulgaria have requested that european union solidarity fund is applied. both cases fulfil the criteria for the mobilisation of the european fund. i voted in favour of the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (disasters in bulgaria and greece in 2015), as the widespread floods in the region of eastern macedonia and thrace and in the regions of epirus, western greece, central greece and thessaloniki have caused enormous damage to basic infrastructure, private housing, public buildings, greek enterprises and agriculture, destroying agricultural infrastructure, crops and crops. the catastrophic floods also resulted in power cuts, the isolation of some mountain settlements and the destruction of some of the monuments of greece's cultural heritage. for these reasons, and in conjunction with the removal of my fellow citizens from the memoranda of the pasok, nd, syriza-anel governments, it is imperative that the above funds be paid immediately and without any delay to repair the above damage caused by the floods.
in writing. ‒ the eu must be flexible when there are reasons to compensate countries affected by natural disasters.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of mr novakov's report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund: disasters in bulgaria and greece in 2015. the extensive flooding in the region of eastern macedonia and thrace, as well as in central greece, caused huge damage to basic infrastructure, private homes, public buildings, businesses and greek agriculture. at the same time, large parts of central and western greece were also affected by floods that caused even greater damage, resulting in the destruction of some important monuments of greece's cultural heritage. the decision to mobilise the solidarity fund is more than right.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the european union, and greece in particular, has a fairly important production outside of agricultural products which must be protected by a single system of protection of geographical origin. i therefore voted in favour of the report by the committee on legal affairs on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications in the union to non-agricultural products.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i support and vote in favour of the report on the possible extension of the eu protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products. geographical indications are a guarantee for consumers, in particular for product quality and legal competition on the market.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the possible extension of the union protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary session on 5/10/2015, and because a number of traditional products based on traditional know-how and techniques are part of the cultural heritage of the european union, contribute to strengthening the local economy and support employment and the activity of small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the geographical indications are not used in the same way as the products of the same sector.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ geographical indications are a guarantee for consumers, in particular for product quality and legitimate competition on the market.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by mrs virginie rozière on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications in the union to non-agricultural products. we must protect high-quality traditional european products based on traditional techniques, as they are an integral part of europe's cultural heritage. these products are directly linked to local ways of life, especially in rural areas, and help to enhance and promote their distinctive character, which in turn benefits cultural tourism, employment and development.
madam president, i've been holding back on this material, not that i don't want to support greece. i am aware of the situation in greece and i was prepared to support the material which would have provided for a derogation for greece from the use of the structural funds as formulated by the july european council, that is, for the period 2014 to 2020, that is, for the future. i did not support the material because, in addition to the decisions of the european summit, the european commission has submitted material that modifies the rules for the programming period for the years 2007 to 2013, which is already effectively ending. according to some experts and lawyers, such a proposal is retroactive and problematic in some aspects. i think that the aid we are approving should be approved for the future, not for legal relationships that have already been established and that are now being settled and terminated.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to help greece, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. a country which has suffered and suffers, precisely because of the memoranda; the memoranda have impoverished greece. at the same time, the memoranda imposed a reduction in public investment. therefore, without public investment there could be no co-financing by greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union itself, through the troika, has impoverished greece, which is why we have the proverb: 'i will burn you, john, and smear you with honey'. the european union is now coming to help the greek people, even if only in a limited way, to alleviate these aggressive and unjust policies of the memorandum itself.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report of the committee on regional development approves the amendment of the general regulation on the rules for the use of the 5 eu structural and investment funds (regional development fund, european social fund, cohesion fund, european agricultural fund for rural development and european maritime and fisheries fund) in order to enable greece to ensure the timely use of the money available to it from the 2007-2013 programming period (before the end of 2017), and to meet all the necessary conditions for access to european funds in the current 2014-2020 programming period. in particular, the percentage of european funding is increased to 100%, effectively eliminating the national contribution for the projects of the period 2007-2013 so that the 2 billion can be used directly, making the entire amount available immediately. the commission also decided to increase the level of initial pre-financing by 7 percentage points or by eur 1 billion for the period 2014-2020. the european union is supporting greece on the investment path by giving it the necessary resources to break out of the vicious circle of recession.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the mihaylova report in order to allow the greek authorities to make immediate use of the emergency measures provided for in the amendment to regulation 1303/3013. however, i have my reservations and reservations, both as regards the regulation itself and the timing of the decision to amend it. given that the mandate to amend the rules of procedure was given immediately after the signature of the 3rd memorandum, it would be hypocritical at least to interpret this decision as an expression of solidarity, or as an ex post facto justice. it is clear that this decision is the product of blackmail against greece and the greek people, a very small "reward" for signing an agreement with the main features of the implementation of extreme austerity measures, the selling off of public property and the transfer of national sovereignty. the eu used the freezing of european funds as a threat and as a means of economic strangulation to impose austerity measures. the greek case is not an isolated one. unfortunately, cohesion policy is increasingly becoming part of the logic of economic governance and the european semester, giving access to european funds only to 'disciplined' countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. in any case, there must be a guarantee that these amounts will actually be allocated to development, something which is not guaranteed by this report. in any case, this pre-financing is but a drop in the ocean of the economic disaster caused in our country by the european union and its domestic admirers and supporters.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the common provisions on the european structural and investment funds: special measures for greece. my country needs all the liquidity it can get right now, and it doesn't come with any extra measures. in any case, it must be ensured that these amounts are actually allocated to development, something which is not ensured by this report. in any case, this prefinancing is but a drop in the ocean of the economic disaster caused in my country by the european union and its domestic admirers and supporters.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund and laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund, as regards specific measures for greece, for the reasons i outlined in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 5/10/2015. in reality, however, the european union is giving erdf funds, to which greece is entitled anyway, and with the other hand is taking back double and triple the amount. moreover, according to european commission figures, more than 40% of the european funds allocated to greece are directly returned to the countries of the european union's hard core, such as the netherlands, for the purchase of industrial equipment, raw materials, consumer goods and so on.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the increase in the pre-financing of the eu's "structural funds" in greece is exclusively for the big business groups and not to relieve the needs of the people. on the contrary, the disbursement of the pre-financing is a component and a condition for the implementation of the 3rd anti-people memorandum of the syriza-anel coalition government and the "quartet" to support the profitability of the monopolies, the implementation of the barbaric measures that provide for: the completion of the demolition of the public insurance system and labour relations, the liberalization of mass layoffs and the striking of the right to strike, new reductions in wages and pensions, taxation of the popular income, the clearing of the rural poor, privatizations, further diversification of public health and education. the committee voted against the eu regulation on the basis of the above criteria. the people have experience of the funds of the 2007-2013 period that were ripped out by the monopolies at the time when the working people's family was bankrupt. the only solution for the people is to organise the struggle to prevent the fire measures, to recover the losses, on the way to break with the eu, the monopolies and their power.
in writing. ‒ greece needs all the liquidity it can get at the moment, and it will not be accompanied by additional measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, this prefinancing is only a drop in the ocean of economic disaster that greece has experienced.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the package of special, emergency measures to enhance the effective use of the €35 billion allocated to greece in the eu budget for the period 2014-2020. the additional liquidity in the greek economy resulting from the amendment of the current regulation is indeed valuable for the greek economy, as the elimination of the need for national co-financing will allow the continuation of projects currently frozen due to lack of national resources. the fact that no other european country has suffered as much as greece from the economic crisis, combined with the fact that these specific measures are neutral for the european budget, since they do not impose any additional burden, is perhaps the best answer to those who claim to be opposed to this decision.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the increase in the pre-financing of the eu's "structural funds" in greece is exclusively for the big business groups and not to relieve the needs of the people. on the contrary, the disbursement of the pre-financing is a component and a condition for the implementation of the 3rd anti-people memorandum of the syriza-anel coalition government and the "quartet" to support the profitability of the monopolies, the implementation of the barbaric measures that provide for: the completion of the demolition of the public insurance system and labour relations, the liberalization of mass layoffs and the striking of the right to strike, new reductions in wages and pensions, taxation of the popular income, the clearing of the rural poor, privatizations, further liberalization of public health and education. the committee voted against the eu regulation on the basis of the above criteria. the people have experience of the funds of the 2007-2013 period that were ripped out by the monopolies at the time when the working people's family was bankrupt. the only solution for the people is to organise the struggle to prevent the fire measures, to recover the losses, on the way to break with the eu, the monopolies and their power.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the application egf/2015/002 de/adam opel. the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/002 de/adam opel, from germany), because the german authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 1 january 2014, well before the decision and indeed the request for the granting of ec support for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the application egf/2015/003 be/ford genk. the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/003 be/ford genk, from belgium), because the belgian authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 1 january 2015, well before the decision and indeed the request for the granting of ec support for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the application egf/2015/004 it/alitalia. the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. – this report is on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the egf provides support to people losing their jobs as a result of major structural changes due to globalisation. this time, this fund focuses on european air transport and supports alitalia’s redundant workers. since 2002, alitalia has faced serious financial difficulties. italian authorities are planning to cover five measures: intake, skill assessment, active job search support, training and reimbursement of mobility costs, and hiring benefits for over-50s. i voted in favour because the report anticipates future labour market perspectives and also adapts to the needs of the dismissed workers.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/004 it/alitalia from italy), because the italian authorities decided to launch the implementation of personalised services to affected workers on 1 april 2015, well before the decision on granting support from the egf for the proposed coordinated package of measures.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of mrs vana's report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is a financial contribution from the egf following the 1,249 redundancies in the alitalia group. the european globalisation adjustment fund can be an important european support tool for workers affected by the consequences of globalisation. the countries of the european south, which are facing the greatest problem, should make the most of the provisions of this fund, which should already have been reinforced with even more funding.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report by the committee on development highlights the role of local government in implementing development aid in third countries. particularly after the adoption by the un general assembly of the global development goals for the next 15 years, local communities should have an active role. the report therefore calls on the european commission to take action and to translate the guidelines it has set out into acts which will have a real impact. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we are voting against because, although the report contains many good elements, it nevertheless gives weight to the so-called 'civil society', a term which simply indicates the participation of ngos in decision-making. we believe that these organisations have no legitimacy to intervene, that they represent only their members and not society, and that they too often represent interests which are contrary to the interests of the people and the state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation because, although the report has many good elements, it nevertheless gives weight to so-called 'civil society', a term which simply indicates the participation of ngos in decision-making. i believe that these organizations have no legitimacy to intervene, that they represent only their members and not society, and that they too often represent interests which are contrary to the interests of the people and the state.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 5/10/2015, and because in order to have resources in local government, developing countries' budgets must not go to debt servicing. the most important thing is therefore to cancel the debts of the developing countries. the second is to use eu regulation 472/2013 to audit the debt in the european union countries and in particular in greece and to write off the defaulted debt.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report has many good elements, but it gives weight to so-called 'civil society', a term which simply indicates the involvement of ngos in decision-making. these organizations have no legitimacy to intervene, they represent only their members and not society, and many represent interests opposed to the interests of the people and the state.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs theoharos on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. it is an excellent text and i should like to congratulate her warmly on the quality of her work and the broad consensus she has achieved.
madam president, the evidence is clear now and the european union and the german government were aware of the volkswagen dirty business which seems to be spreading to other groups. the revelation of the scandal was not motivated by the advertised supposed transparency, but by competing american monopolies fighting for market share. the european union is not prepared to accept the new approach of the united states, which is not in a position to take action on the basis of the treaty of rome. it turns out that all the aspects of eu policy, such as green and environmentally friendly investment, have one objective: profit at the expense of the quality of life of the people at all levels. the huge business lobbies have an official role as a real co-legislator in the european union. the scandals known and those still unknown are not mere deviations, but the way in which they operate, the proof of the character of the european union of the monopolies and the capitalist system it serves. economic, social and political rot is what the people who do not take a stand to overthrow him can expect.
the scandal surrounding the volkswagen fraud is economic, environmental and highly political. the number of cars with 'pirated software' on the european market needs to be ascertained. was this software installed by this company alone? what measures should be taken to prevent such phenomena from happening again? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we cannot let volkswagen's connections to the german political scene prevent it from being punished. chancellor merkel herself is a big supporter of the german car industry, as well as other large german companies, which are addicted to fraud and kickbacks. they are impoverishing the countries of the south with their austerity measures, accusing them of corruption and while dozens of german scandals have been revealed, their companies remain untouched. the german government, in conjunction with powerful german capital, can no longer treat other countries as colonies, unable to enforce their laws. there must now be an exemplary punishment for volkswagen!
i have listened to you very carefully, commissioner. in september you declared your ignorance of the volkswagen scandal and, as today, you declared zero tolerance for fraud and strict compliance with european rules. but you said nothing about the cover-up, so let me remind you that in the commission you were aware of the problem of falsification of results since 2011. you admitted this in november 2012 and you cite the launch of a real driving test process in january 2011. in november 2013, the parliament's competent committee, itre, speaks clearly in its report on consumer fraud, and calls for you to immediately introduce real-world testing. the same year, your own joint research centre clearly informed you of the possibility of this fraud being carried out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you deliberately chose to freeze the procedure and cover it up and, by avoiding the appropriate checks, you are primarily responsible for the failure to meet the conditions for the community subsidies granted to the cars in question.
mr president, today it is revealed that over 8 million volkswagen cars are on the road in europe with the illegal software, and that the european commission had already identified discrepancies between declared and actual emissions since 2013, without doing anything. the facts show the inability of the union, as well as of the national control authorities, to enforce the laws effectively. this scandal, on top of everything else, is undermining our credibility, just before the climate change summit in paris. for these reasons, it is urgent that there should be a central control mechanism throughout the european union so that each state is not allowed to protect its own illegal industries. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - that we do not sacrifice our environmental ethics even in this time of economic crisis to the altar of profit and the distortion of competition of the multinationals.
mr president, on 23 september i tabled a question on the now well-known volkswagengate scandal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, such as the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at a time when schäuble is pointing the finger at greece and asking my country to take additional tough memorandum measures to supposedly improve the competitiveness of the country's economy, the volkswagen scandal proves once again that the famous competitiveness of german companies is almost entirely due to bribes and illegal and dirty practices used to deceive the regulatory authorities and consumers. the european union should take immediate action by carrying out strict checks on cars of all companies throughout europe to protect the environment, health and consumers themselves.
the situation in libya, madam president, is yet another example of the wrong foreign policy pursued by the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the country, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to express his views on the situation in the country. the european union has been the first to take action in this area, and it is the first to take action in this area. worse, powerful forces of isis jihadists have been deployed in the country. something similar happened with syria: the european union has been insisting on the overthrow of president assad, despite the developments and therefore the logic. you know the results. the same with turkey: the european union tolerated turkey supporting the forces of isis and pushing thousands of illegal migrants into greece and, through it, into europe. what is the european union doing now? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget.
the situation in libya, mr president, is presenting new challenges for the european union. in the refugee camp, we have over 400,000 refugees trying to escape civil war and coming to europe. the question is who is supporting the jihadists right now in libya, as well as in syria. what is turkey's role? what is the role of other forces? is the commission aware that, according to press reports, the haddad 1 ship which left alexandria for libya, in the area of misrata where the jihadists are based, was seized off crete with illegal weapons, including 5,000 weapons and 500,000 bullets? do you have any idea at the commission where these weapons were going that left a turkish port? what about illegal weapons in these matters? who's arming the jihadists now?
mr president, all the member states of the european union have now abolished the death penalty, as abolition was a condition for their accession to the european union. the death penalty, however, continues to be applied in countries such as the united states, china and in many states of the muslim world, such as saudi arabia and iran. the right to life should not be taken away from anyone in any way. the penalties imposed on an accused, after a fair trial, must be both punitive and dissuasive. in the light of these principles, the attitude of certain governments, which openly or covertly propose the reintroduction of the death penalty, thus calling into question respect for human dignity and human rights, is unacceptable. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter, and i hope that the council will take the opportunity to do so. i therefore call for the abolition of the death penalty throughout the world.
mr president, the death penalty offends the dignity of the human person by making the convict an object for the purpose of being used as an example, and it invalidates the very concept of human rights, since it prematurely ends the human condition. this is why the death penalty is prohibited under the second protocol to the united nations international covenant on civil and political rights and a number of other international instruments. the european union is founded on the values of the protection of human dignity and human rights and aims to promote these very values, in accordance with articles 2 and 3 of its founding treaty. the union must therefore promote more actively the abolition of the death penalty in the countries with which it has economic and political relations. we must do whatever is necessary to put an end to this barbarity once and for all.
madam president, the report we are discussing today is very important, as it deals with the introduction of a european order for payment procedure in relation to small claims. i therefore agree that the procedure for ordering payment for small claims should be simplified, because this will boost crossborder trade and trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the unsecured debt was reduced from 1,500 euros to 1,000 euros, with the result that the state and the banks were "grabbing" the bank accounts of impoverished greeks. in greece, therefore, the procedure for the execution of payment orders is essentially at the service of the state party and the usurious lenders. madam president, from the platform of the european parliament i would like to stress once again that the citizens who are opposed to the memoranda will continue to fight for the abolition of the memoranda in greece, the cancellation of the shameful debt and the expulsion of the troika from our country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to inform you of the enormous problem facing my country, greece, in the last two winters, due to the ethyl fog that has appeared in greek cities, especially in athens and thessaloniki. the appearance of the ethyl haze is due exclusively to the memorandum which imposed the increase in taxes on heating oil, but also on electricity and thus led thousands of my fellow citizens to seek methods of heating of the previous century, such as makeshift stoves and burning of all kinds of unsuitable fuel. these methods are extremely dangerous, both for the citizens themselves and for public health. for these reasons, i call on the greek government to decide immediately to introduce zero vat and to reduce the consumption tax on electricity and heating oil to the minimum, otherwise the greek people will freeze again this winter and we will again face the health bomb of ethyl haze, the responsibility of the troika and the syriza-anel coalition.
the new directive, madam president, increases the transparency of labelling and thus allows for better information for consumers of dairy products. in addition, alignment with international standards in the composition of edible casein helps to protect the health of milk consumers, because we have also cases of changes in milk legislation aimed at strengthening the milk multinationals. in greece, for example, the new memorandum voted in august by the five members of the memorandum, syriza, anel, pasok, nd and potami, has completely liberalised the shelf life of pasteurised milk, so that we now have pasteurised milk for up to eleven days, which is enough time to transport the pasteurised milk from mr dijsselbloem's netherlands to greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are not exceeded. finally, commissioner, cheese must be made from milk and not from milk powder.
madam president, the situation in syria is now out of control. the civil war is intensifying and millions of refugees are pouring into neighboring countries, as well as into greece, in search of safety. in a region where the use of chemical weapons and the bombing of civilians are commonplace, the international community is proving incapable of contributing to the peaceful settlement of disputes. the western powers' obsession with ending the assad regime has paved the way for isis jihadists who continue to massacre the christian population and destroy the cultural monuments of the region. the jihadists' aim is to destabilise the populations of the region, destroy their cultural heritage and create a huge refugee tsunami that will literally drown the countries of europe. already my country, greece, has been irreparably affected by the huge flows of refugees and is unable to accommodate any more refugees. the european union must therefore learn from the mistakes of the past and take the diplomatic initiative to find a lasting solution to the crisis in syria.
madam president, the wrong policy pursued by the european union in the case of syria is largely responsible for the situation in that country over the last five years. the constant obsession, over the years, to overthrow president assad, when it was obvious from the beginning that this could not happen, has put the european union in a position of being the bearer of developments. instead of being the protagonist, it became an extra and gave way to other countries which in effect filled the void left by the european union. in this way, all we have gained is to suffer the consequences of the ongoing war, namely the hundreds of thousands of dead, the strengthening of the forces of isis, the flow of millions of refugees to turkey and, from there, hundreds of thousands to greece and europe and, finally, the decisive and dynamic intervention of russia in the matter. now, all that remains to be done in order to solve the syrian problem is to work with russia.
madam president, after a year of parliamentary presence, i have come to the conclusion that many colleagues deliberately imply, for self-interest, that they do not learn from history. it is wrong, because history teaches and warns. they don't remember, for example, what alexander the great's macedonia is in ancient greece. they do not remember turkey's past and its transformation into a so-called republic. the six-century ottoman empire offered nothing to mankind, as did the empires of alexander the great, rome and byzantium. only massacres, looting, appropriation of foreign cultures and genocides of thousands of poles, armenians and others. is it possible, historically, that these six centuries could launch a neo-ottoman state with other principles? don't kid yourself. turkey is trying to use the eu and the us to its advantage to harm the kurds, divide cyprus, strengthen its position in the middle east and change the status quo in the aegean, with merkel's blessings, through a joint search and rescue operation with greece, without regard for the consequences that lead to the infiltration of jihadists into european territory, with the simultaneous islamization of europe. rest assured, history will write your names for your decisions. it's your choice whether they're written in black.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the offices of the opposition people's democratic party have been the target of systematic attacks by pro-state elements, and politically motivated prosecutions have been brought against its members. the government is manipulating justice, violating freedom of speech, press and the internet. it is carrying out mass purges of public administration and arrests of dissidents, and covering up corruption scandals involving it with terrorist methods. in 2014, the european court of human rights issued 101 convictions against turkey, more than any other council of europe member state except russia. outside its borders, turkey continues to occupy large parts of cyprus and violates greek airspace, while being accused of supporting islamic state jihadists. europe must stop tolerating the turkish regime. aid for syrian refugees, yes, but not for erdoğan.
madam president, in the last turkish elections, the kurdish party of mr demirtaş won its seat in parliament, voted for by many other turkish citizens. this temporarily reversed mr. erdoğan's plans for presidential powers. the president's response was direct and in an attempt to implicate the kurdish element, he is leading turkey into conflict with the ever-willing pkk, which has never endorsed mr demirtaş. and in this context, the european union must find solutions for the thousands of refugees coming from syria and arriving on the greek islands, through the turkish coast and a solution for resettlement and a solution for the traffickers and a solution for syria. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the situation in the former yugoslavia. and let us quickly find mutually beneficial paths of cooperation with turkey, such as the identification of refugees on its territory, the relocation from the camps to europe and the repatriation agreements. it is a fact that turkey is already hosting over two million refugees from syria, but let's not forget that these are people and not a weapon in its diplomacy.
madam president, turkey has no place in the european union, as long as it continues to occupy illegally 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus and to prevent cyprus from using its exclusive economic zone. the turkish occupation forces must therefore leave cyprus immediately. turkey, too, continues to maintain a casus belli against greece, in case my country exercises its sovereign rights, extending its territorial waters in the aegean to 12 miles. in addition, turkish fighter jets continue to violate greek airspace. turkey's involvement in syria is exacerbating the crisis, as under the pretext of supposedly countering isis, it is bombing the kurds. at the same time, there are more and more reports in the international press confirming turkey's support for isis forces and jihadists, not only in syria but also in libya. finally, in the refugee field, turkey has set up a lucrative campaign of guiding slave-trading rings that are doing a golden job, transporting thousands of refugees to the aegean islands, which have literally sunk.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the calendar of parliament's sittings for 2017 because, although it adequately and fully promotes the legislative and other parliamentary activities of the european parliament, it operates exclusively on the basis of the religious holidays of the catholic church and does not take into account the religious holidays of the orthodox churches, as determined in particular by the ecumenical patriarchate of constantinople, although a significant number of meps and officials of the ep are orthodox christians and therefore suffer discrimination in this respect in the exercise of their religious beliefs, in particular in relation to easter.
in writing. ‒ the regulation is respected.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against, we are against the european union's interventions in the internal affairs of third countries, we consider them a relic and a revival of colonialism, while they are proven to create more problems than they are supposed to solve.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement on the general principles for tunisia's participation in union programmes, because tunisia's economic development was based on the arab spring, which was designed by the americans to destabilise the region to the detriment of europe and with negative consequences for the countries of the mediterranean in particular.
in writing. ‒ this report is on the enp and in particular on tunisia and its relations with the european union. in 2007, enp countries were allowed to participate gradually in european programmes. tunisia expressed the wish to be involved in horizon 2020 (the programme of research and development) and also in the programme cosme (which is on competitiveness and smes). the report seeks to permit tunisia to join these programmes. tunisia is the only enp country from the near and middle east and north africa where the democratic transition is still fragile. we should reinforce our relations with tunisia. this report can achieve that and this is why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia on the general principles for the participation of the republic of tunisia in union programmes, as it is quite important for the eu to increase its cooperation with tunisia in the field of university education, general education, training and youth, through programmes such as erasmus+.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ tunisia's economic development was based on the arab spring, which was designed by the americans to destabilise the region at the expense of europe and with negative consequences for the countries mainly of the mediterranean
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it aims to simplify the process of settling crossborder small claims up to eur 5 000, thus facilitating crossborder trade and the movement of european citizens within the european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because the simplification of judicial procedures and the increase in the financial limit for actions will help smes.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure because simplifying court procedures and raising the threshold for claims will help small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ this report is on two regulations (no 1896/2006 and no 861/2007), on cross-border cases. the purpose of this report is to find a solution, when there is litigation between several countries, through the mechanism of small claims. gue/ngl originally had an objection regarding the threshold. to set a small threshold for the small claim procedure, in the final report the amount was fixed at eur 5 000, and gue/ngl supported that. another relevant concern is the possibility for oral hearing and videoconference. i voted in favour of the report, since the small claims procedure was improved.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure and regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 establishing a european order for payment procedure, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 6/10/2015. i would also like to mention the procedure for the confiscation of wages and pensions, which the troika has imposed on greece under the memorandum iii. the unsecured debt was reduced from 1,500 euros to 1,000 euros, with the result that the state and the banks were "grabbing" the bank accounts of impoverished greeks. in greece, therefore, the procedure for the execution of payment orders is essentially at the service of the state party and the usurious lenders. so, from the platform of the european parliament, i want to stress once again that the anti-memorandum citizens will continue to fight for the abolition of the memoranda in greece, the cancellation of the shameful debt and the expulsion of the troika from our country.
in writing. ‒ simplifying court procedures and increasing the financial threshold for litigation will help smes .
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure. the new proposal is rightly aimed at simplifying and speeding up the settlement of small claims in crossborder cases and at reducing costs. it is indicative that at present 45% of enterprises involved in a crossborder dispute do not go to court because the cost of the procedure is disproportionate to the value of the dispute, while 27% do not go to court because the procedure would be too time-consuming.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the report, which is the result of months of negotiations between the european parliament, the european commission and the council, aims to reduce emissions of certain pollutants from medium-sized combustion plants. the new legislation will help significantly to improve air quality, particularly in environmentally stressed areas. at the same time, we have succeeded in extending the adaptation period for small island power stations not connected to the mainland, since immediate and full implementation of the directive would jeopardise electricity production in the majority of our islands.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against, although the report could be improved further, but it is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium-sized combustion plants, although the report could be improved further, because it is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 6/10/2015. in addition, i would like to point out the enormous problem facing my country, greece, in the last two winters, due to the ethyl smog that has appeared in greek cities, especially athens and thessaloniki. the appearance of the ethyl haze is due exclusively to the memorandum which imposed the increase in taxes on heating oil, but also on electricity and thus led thousands of my fellow citizens to seek methods of heating of the previous century, such as makeshift stoves and burning of all kinds of unsuitable fuel. these methods are extremely dangerous, both for the citizens themselves and for public health. for these reasons, i call on the greek government to decide immediately to introduce zero vat and to reduce the consumption tax on electricity and heating oil to the minimum, otherwise the greek people will freeze again this winter and we will again face the health bomb of ethyl haze, the responsibility of the troika and the syriza-anel coalition.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while the report could be improved further, it is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which improves community legislation and strengthens the implementation of pollution reduction rules in the eu. medium-sized combustion plants concern sectors such as domestic heating and electricity generation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because the report introduces important changes to this directive, which protect public health and at the same time limit the commission's uncontrolled action.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and casein salts intended for human consumption, as it introduces important changes to the directive in question, which protect public health and at the same time limit the commission's uncontrolled action.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and casein salts intended for human consumption and repealing directive 83/417/eec, because, as the debate in the plenary has shown, the report, although it is in the right direction, is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report introduces important changes to this directive, which protect public health and at the same time limit the commission's uncontrolled action.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this report. this initiative sets the necessary conditions for ensuring the free and safe movement of food, but also for the protection of consumers and public health.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the financial rules for implementing the eu budget should provide the appropriate means and facilities for its simple, substantial, functional but above all flexible design and implementation. the existing format, including the attempt to change it, is complex, technocratic and far from adapted to the current requirements of the union's critical situation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the financial rules for implementing the eu budget should provide the appropriate means and facilities for its simple, substantial, functional but, above all, flexible design and implementation. the current form, including the attempt to change it, is complex, technocratic and far from being adapted to the current requirements of the union's critical situation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the financial rules for implementing the eu budget should provide the appropriate means and facilities for its simple, substantial and functional, but above all flexible, design and implementation. the existing format, including the attempt to change it, is complex, technocratic and far from being adapted to the current requirements of the union's critical situation.
mr president, both the banking union for the dissemination and protection of the banking system and the capital markets union for raising capital are becoming urgent for large companies, given their inability to overcome the capitalist crisis and the fear of a new one. the european union has one goal: recovery at the expense of the rights and needs of the people. look at the thousands of layoffs, all over the states. look at what's happening these days with thousands of layoffs at air france and elsewhere. in greece, the three memoranda, pasok, new democracy and syriza, the recapitalization of the banks, to stand in the single capital market that is being discussed, the people pay with barbarism, without end, measures for wages, pensions, taxes, social spending, privatizations. governments and the union are being blackmailed cruelly with bankruptcy and in the months ahead with the threat of cutting bail-in deposits. when capitalist recovery means an endless descent for the people, the only way left is to clash with that road, the european union and its parties.
mr president, it is clear that the creation of a capital markets union will greatly help the real economy, we will have lower costs of money, more investment, more growth and more jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, large projects can be derailed by relatively small-scale failures. i would like to mention that the various funds faced major problems in europe during the second quarter because of the risk of grexit. investors became more hesitant and so the investment was limited. i therefore believe that it is an important investment in the creation of the capital markets union, to deal directly with the problems of the greek banking system which is unable to finance the real economy. in addition, we must stabilise the greek capital market, which is in a phase of contraction. these issues, in my view, cannot be dealt with effectively by the greek government, which is attempting a difficult shift from the radical left to a more realistic approach to the situation, but must be addressed by the european institutions involved in the management of the ongoing greek crisis. the situation in greece, in terms of the capital market and the banking system, is a systemic instability that needs to be addressed here and now.
mr katainen, you said that the capital markets union would stimulate investment. i would like to say that there will be no investment in the european union until the debt problem is solved. the debt that has hit all economies, not just the economies of the south, not just italy, but even france. now france has a debt problem and from what you heard earlier, mr. hollande was going to whisper something about the greek debt settlement which will reach 206% of gdp in 2016, but mrs. merkel who holds the helm of "german europe" was tacitly cool and meaningful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. solve these issues first and then you'll have investments in europe.
madam president, we are discussing today the alleged union of capital markets, but the reality is different. these markets are fragmented in such a way that the cost of money is very high, even prohibitive, in the very economies, the very member states of the union, that have been hit the hardest by the economic crisis, such as greece. the result is that the prospects of both a recovery in these economies and a reduction in the dramatically high levels of unemployment are being eroded. in the face of these challenges, the european commission's plan proposes some individual improvements, without addressing the root of the problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. it is absurd to treat depositors as investors and to threaten them with the notorious bail in.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr tajani, on his report on the creation of a single payments area, in which citizens and businesses can make crossborder payments with the same ease, safety and efficiency as they can within their own countries, paying the same fees. the proper functioning of the internal market requires a secure payment system in order to support the development of the union economy and to ensure that consumers benefit from transparency in payment services. it is therefore clear that all member states should ensure that the rules for access to payment services are objective and impartial and that there is also security in electronic transactions. this will eliminate barriers between national markets and help the internal market to create e-commerce. at the same time, however, i would like to point out that the european union has no right to exclude the elderly and other segments of consumers from the single market by imposing compulsory card use and thus leading to a 'default society'.
mr president, on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the enormous environmental disaster that the danube suffered, i take this opportunity to inform you of the pollution of many greek rivers, mainly by industrial and municipal waste water. strymon, nestos, axios, lydia, french, pineios, aliakmonas and, above all, asopos are all rivers that face, each to a different degree, pollution problems. the problems are acute in aliakmon and pinios, but in the wider region of asopus, the situation is dramatic and the problem is chronic. measurements in the area indicate the presence of heavy metals and attenuated chromium which are dangerous to public health. the local authorities and, above all, the inhabitants have been fighting this environmental crime for years. this saturday, october 10, they are holding another mobilization on the issue. i support their mobilization and i call on the greek government to take all the necessary measures here and now to stop environmental crime on the asopos and on the other rivers of greece, otherwise it will be criminally responsible, as previous governments have been.
mr president, nord stream 2 proves that, in the energy sector too, the economy is the decision maker. at the same time that mrs merkel was assuring that she would not abandon ukraine, german companies, along with other european multinationals, were concluding an agreement with gazprom to double the capacity of nord stream. they do this because they think it's a cheaper option. businesses, but above all consumers, need access to cheap energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. the strategy of the multiple southern energy corridors and their passage through my country, greece, is of key importance in this respect. with developments in iran, the construction of tap, the discovery of oil deposits in egypt, israel, cyprus and the deposits in greece, the energy framework is changing radically. greece must be a strategic energy hub and a gateway to the new architecture by exploiting its energy reserves, away from the guardianship of the troika and the creditors, with the sole purpose of benefiting our people and their well-being.
the european union must combat gender discrimination in the workplace, while at the same time promoting the empowerment of women in developing countries. in the current global financial crisis, there is a marked discrimination against women and a gender pay and pension gap across the world. in addition, unemployment rates for women far exceed those for men, which further demonstrates discrimination in the recruitment of workers. in greece, which has been impoverished by the memorandum, women are the biggest victims of the crisis. thus, the unemployment rate for women, in the first quarter of 2015, is 30.6% against 23.5% for men. the member states of the european union must strive to eliminate the gender pay gap in the developing world and to impose gender transparency in pension systems. they should also ensure women's rights in relation to motherhood and oppose the unfair dismissal of women workers during their pregnancy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years you have been trying to achieve equality between the sexes at work. have you wondered, though, why all your efforts so far have ended in failure? you fail to realize that your own approach is wrong. in your individualistic frenzy, you refuse to accept the normal fact that the cell of society is the family. you are pushing citizens into a quest for greater profits and into an extreme consumerism. you seek equality at all costs and you cannot understand how you are simply causing the leveling. equality is not the magic solution. the word you're looking for is harmony. harmony between the sexes, harmony between all members of a society and cooperation of all to promote the social and not just our economic level. you've even gone so far as to take the sacred work of raising children or caring for the elderly and disabled, and try to value it in monetary terms. equal opportunities for all: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the question is "blue card". that's very nice of you to say, but i'll disagree with you on one point: because i'm the father of a child with disabilities, i have a 32-year-old daughter with down syndrome, the child's care is not only the mother's responsibility, but in too many families the burden and responsibility is shared by both parents, both the father and the mother, don't you agree?
the european union is concerned about the equality of women in employment. so the unsub is worried about his victims. mockery in all its glory! the union is hiding its barbarity, which culminated in the memoranda: the abolition of all rights, equality downwards, the common impoverishment of women and men. in greece, the country of the three union memoranda, with syriza, pasok and new democracy, the pension is virtually abolished, especially for women, the age limit is raised to 17 and the working years are increased when unemployment is at its peak. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. the sunday holiday for rest and family contact is abolished. the ess for low-income pensioners, mainly women, is abolished. they cut the minimum pension from 486 to 392 euros. pension-petty 200 to 250 euros, until you reach 67. the private pension schemes in the union are making the situation worse. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union.
mr president, for many years the european union has been working to put an end to gender discrimination in pay and employment. however, we see that the wage gaps against women continue. they're paid at least 16 percent less than men. we have an overrepresentation of women in parttime work; we have a very high rate of unemployment, and we have a very high rate of unemployment, and we have a very high rate of unemployment. in particular, now, in the countries affected by the memoranda, it is women who have been hit the hardest by austerity and fiscal adjustment measures. in greece, the latest figures for 2015 show that women have an unemployment rate of 30.6%, while men have 23.5%. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, we are discussing consumer rights and how member states should ensure that there is no discrimination on grounds of nationality or place of residence of the recipient. first, member states must ensure that existing legislation on online services is properly applied. often, some consumers from small member states face several difficulties in the process of receiving the items they want, and in some cases, online providers refuse to deliver the items to consumers. it is therefore necessary for the european union to put an end to the unjustified exclusion of consumers from the purchase of any goods or services, where this infringes their fundamental rights. moreover, in the context of electronic commerce, the additional charge to the consumer for transport costs should be abolished if he has not been informed in advance. finally, immediate action by the european union should be taken to bring about a targeted change in the way electronic commerce is conducted, without infringing on consumers' rights.
mr president, the central african republic is a rich country; it has diamonds, it has wood. and yet, right now, it's facing a humanitarian crisis, the worst humanitarian crisis since it gained independence in 1960. and its 4.5 million people are in trouble, and half of the residents are children. so you can see that the problem is serious. the conflicts which appear to be religious conflicts are, in fact, based on the exploitation of natural resources and, above all, of the resources which produce wealth. that's why these clashes happen. at the same time, many diamond and gemstone companies have direct links to armed groups, which are responsible for rape, death, looting, etc. the international community must therefore intervene immediately. the european union must be more determined to put an end to this situation, to bring peace to the region and, above all, to ensure that the exploitation of precious stones and diamonds is carried out for the benefit of the people of the central african republic themselves.
madam president, since the coup of 22 may 2014 in thailand, the arrests, the prosecutions, the imprisonments of all those who resist, all those who support human rights have intensified. the situation is now unacceptable, it has reached the impasse. in fact, on august 14, 2015, the military junta passed a law banning public gatherings and even providing for up to 10 years in prison if someone violates this law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
madam president, nigeria is a rich country with abundant resources, oil, and huge revenues, and yet the population in nigeria lives in poverty and faces human rights violations. so underdevelopment, lack of democracy and corruption are the fertilizer for terrorism and the growth of boko haram, this jihadist organization that works closely with isis. so boko haram is constantly growing, it's practicing terrorism, it's responsible for murder, for bombings, for kidnapping children, for rapes. since 2009, millions of children have fled their homes to save their lives. to defeat boko haram, we have to hit poverty, we have to hit the causes that create terrorism, we have to have the huge oil revenues in nigeria go to the people of nigeria themselves, and not to the pockets of the multinationals.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, thank you for bringing up the case of ali mohammed al-nimr. as we all know, saudi arabia is an important partner for the european union but, like many in europe, we are concerned by the death sentence imposed on mr al-nimr by a saudi court earlier this year. mr al-nimr was a juvenile when he was arrested in 2012 on charge of, inter alia, joining a criminal group and attacking police forces after he took part in demonstrations in the saudi arabia’s eastern province. we have been closely following developments related to his case, as well as the overall human rights situation in saudi arabia. the basis and conditions of mr al-nimr’s sentence, as well as the nature of the punishment handed down to him, are matters of grave concern for the european union. in addition, the sentence appears manifestly disproportionate. we have therefore been engaging the saudi authorities, in close coordination with eu member states represented in riyadh. our delegation in riyadh has been tasked to convey to the saudi authorities our strong view that the sentence is disproportionate and the proposed modalities of the execution particularly degrading, and to call on them to review mr al-nimr’s sentence. this is, of course, also an opportunity to reiterate, once more, our principled eu position on the death penalty, as well as to stress the worrying increase in the use of the death penalty in saudi arabia. we also constantly reiterate the need to respect the un minimum standards, especially concerning the issue of execution of minors and renew our offer to engage in a more constructive human rights dialogue with saudi arabia. the pace of executions in saudi arabia is reaching unprecedented levels, with capital punishment being increasingly imposed for non-lethal crimes, such as drug offences. obviously, we will continue to call on our saudi partners to suspend the sentence and to review the court ruling. let me once again assure you that we will continue to remain engaged with the case of mr al-nimr and to voice the eu’s concern through appropriate channels.
ecr), in writing. mr president, on 14 february 2012, mohammed al-nimr, who participated in a demonstration against the government of saudi arabia at the age of 17, was arrested. he was repeatedly sentenced to execution by beheading and public crucifixion. in accordance with the united nations convention on the rights of the child, it is prohibited in any country to impose the death penalty and life imprisonment on persons under the age of 17. however, saudi arabia has not only violated this un convention by imposing the death penalty on mohammed al-nimr, but has also declared his participation in an anti-government protest illegal, which in addition violates the right to freedom of expression. the eu calls on the government of the drc to take all necessary measures to ensure that the death penalty is abolished in the drc. the eu must also help to ensure that the rules established for the protection of minors are respected.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the payment intermediation services should not be allowed to claim selectivity for the unrestricted exclusion from the scope of directive 2007/04/ec. the creation of 'collection plants' and 'payment plants' should not be excluded from the scope of the directive on grounds of potential tax evasion. finally, the imposition of interbank fees for card transactions is totally unfair and wrong.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the although the report is moving in the right direction, it does not specify precisely the means of supervision so that the powers exercised are exercised in respect of fundamental rights, including the right to privacy. the report introduces concepts which are contrary to the principles of the free market. payment service providers and specialised payment instruments shall not be automatically converted from specialised to general purpose. the grouping of all payment services removes the independence of payment subcategories, destroys many rights associated with provision and use, and may raise problems of security of financial transactions and sensitive personal data. for these reasons, my vote is against. payment intermediation services should not be allowed to claim selectivity for the unrestricted exclusion from the scope of directive 2007/04/ec. the creation of 'collection plants' and 'payment plants' should not be excluded from the scope of the directive on grounds of potential tax evasion. finally, the imposition of inter-bank fees for card transactions is totally unfair and wrong.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the additional report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on payment services in the internal market and amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/10/2015 and because the proper functioning of the internal market requires a secure payment system in order to support the growth of the union economy and ensure that consumers benefit from transparency in payment services. it is therefore clear that all member states should ensure that the rules for access to payment services are objective and impartial and that there is also security in electronic transactions. this will eliminate barriers between national markets and help the internal market to create e-commerce. at the same time, however, i would like to point out that the european union has no right to exclude the elderly and other segments of consumers from the single market by imposing compulsory card use and thus leading to a 'default society'.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report is moving in the right direction on many points such as the review clause, the right of recourse, the execution of electronic money transactions, the continuation of cash or cheque transactions within the single market, the regulation of payment initiation services supervisors for consumer protection, security and liability, competition and data protection. however, the means of supervision are not precisely defined so that the powers exercised are exercised with respect for fundamental rights, including the right to privacy. the report introduces concepts which are contrary to the principles of the free market. payment service providers and specialised payment instruments shall not be automatically converted from specialised to general purpose. payment intermediation services should not be allowed to claim selectivity for the unrestricted exclusion from the scope of directive 2007/04/ec. the creation of 'collection plants' and 'payment plants' should not be excluded from the scope of the directive on grounds of potential tax evasion. finally, the imposition of interbank fees for card transactions is totally unfair and wrong.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which was unanimously adopted by the committee responsible. the text strengthens the legal regime for the payment services concerned, providing a more harmonised framework for the creation of an integrated payments market and protecting consumers.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the with this report, which i have supported, the committee on petitions of the european parliament is addressing the burning issue of the lack of protection for borrowers who are at risk of losing their homes in the wake of the seizure and eviction epidemic in spain. unfortunately, because of a conservative majority in the house, some issues which also concerned greek borrowers, namely the rapid growth in 'red' loans and loan agreements in swiss francs, which now concern 75,000 families, were removed from the final text of the resolution.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against the transfer-for-payment system, because it has been and is being used in greece with disastrous consequences for the impoverished people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the eu legislation on mortgages and high-risk financial products: the case of spain, because i am opposed to the practice of 'transfer over payment', because it has been applied and is being applied in greece with disastrous consequences for the impoverished people.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution not only because i agree with the spirit in which it is being drafted but also because it includes two paragraphs (m and n) which are of direct concern to my country. the positive vote on paragraphs m and n welcomes the emphasis on a problem which is not only economic but also social. the economic justification for voting in favour of both paragraphs is based, first, on the need to safeguard the interests of the consumer of financial products and, second, on the need to remedy problems that lead to market failures as a result of asymmetric information. asymmetric information can lead to a bad financial contract (in our case a mortgage) that burdens one of the parties. the eu institutions have long been planning to amend both the mifid (directive on markets in financial instruments, the poor implementation of which is referred to) and the prospectus directive, in order to provide consumers and retail investors with better information than is currently available. the proposal for a decision in question, in any case, highlights this problem for the case of spain, whereas the references to greece were intended to underline that such phenomena are not found only in spain.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on spanish legislation on mortgages and high-risk financial products, on the basis of the reports received, for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 5/10/2015 and because in greece, red housing loans reached eur 21 billion. there, the banks began selling the red loans to the well-known crows of the world market to the aggressive hedge funds that are preparing to hammer, instead of a lens board, the homes of the greek people. in fact, memorandum 3 also lays down express procedures for auctions. over 500,000 greek borrowers are now in danger of losing their homes. also, 70,000 greeks who have taken out swiss franc mortgages are in danger of losing their own homes. i am therefore asking the european commission, in cooperation with the central bank, to take measures to protect the first home and to stop the auctions of houses in greece and spain.
in writing. while the resolution unambiguously notes the acute nature of the problems and the inability of the popular families in spain to repay loans or rent leading to foreclosures, house auctions and evictions, there is no explicit reference to the full protection of the popular households affected by the crisis and the anti-popular measures. on the contrary, proposals are being put forward which actually safeguard the interests of the banks, by imposing other burdens on working people's households and leaving the way open to public auctions of public housing, maintaining the deadlock and the anguish of those who, because of poverty and unemployment, cannot repay loans. the kke has repeatedly taken a position on the issue with specific positions to protect and relieve the popular families, demanding, among other things, the abolition of auctions of first and second popular housing, the cancellation of interest-bearing debts and the drastic reduction of loans that the popular strata were forced to take in previous years for their needs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are opposed to the practice of 'transfer for payment' because it has been applied and is being applied in greece with disastrous consequences for the impoverished people.
in writing. while the resolution unambiguously notes the acute nature of the problems and the inability of the popular families in spain to repay loans or rent leading to foreclosures, house auctions and evictions, there is no explicit reference to the full protection of the popular households affected by the crisis and the anti-popular measures. on the contrary, proposals are being put forward which actually safeguard the interests of the banks, by imposing other burdens on working people's households and leaving the way open to public auctions of public housing, maintaining the deadlock and the anguish of those who, because of poverty and unemployment, cannot repay loans. the kke has repeatedly taken a position on the issue with specific positions to protect and relieve the popular families, demanding, among other things, the abolition of auctions of first and second popular housing, the cancellation of interest-bearing debts and the drastic reduction of loans that the popular strata were forced to take in previous years for their needs.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the resolution, which i had the honour of signing, and the joint resolution, which was finally adopted by the european parliament, condemn the countries which still apply the death penalty and propose restrictions on the export of substances which can be used for the purpose of capital punishment. as a progressive person, i find it unacceptable that there are still countries in the so-called developed world that practice this unacceptable practice and i believe that the european union must use its political weight on the international stage to push for its abolition.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against, our movement is in favour of reinstating the death penalty for particularly heinous crimes, such as trafficking in large quantities of drugs and the rape of minors.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against all the reports on the death penalty, since the movement i represent is in favour of reinstating the death penalty for particularly heinous crimes, such as trafficking in large quantities of drugs and the rape of minors.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the death penalty for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 6/10/2015 and because the right to life should not be taken away from anyone in any way. the penalties imposed on an accused, after a fair trial, must be both punitive and dissuasive. in the light of these principles, the attitude of certain governments, which openly or covertly propose the reintroduction of the death penalty, thus calling into question respect for human dignity and human rights, is unacceptable. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter, and i hope that the council will take the opportunity to do so. i therefore call for the abolition of the death penalty throughout the world.
in writing. the kke is in favour of abolishing the death penalty. but at the same time we point out the hypocritical attitude of the eu on this issue, which supports by all means, political, economic and military, the most reactionary states and governments, which use executions to a large extent as a means of oppressing their peoples, as allied forces in its imperialist interventions, as it characteristically does with the oil monarchies and other reactionary bourgeois regimes in the middle east, north africa, latin america and elsewhere. the joint resolution of the european parliament even uses the sensitive issue of the death penalty as another vehicle for eu interventions in third countries. it uses it, as well as 'human rights' and 'democracy' in general, as the eu selectively conceives them, as a pretext to use the various eu funds intended to finance such actions ('stability and peace facility', 'european instrument for democracy and human rights') to exert pressure and intervene sometimes covertly, sometimes openly in the internal affairs of third countries, with the aim of exploiting their pluto-productive resources and consolidating the positions of european monopolies in the face of increasing inter-imperialist competition.
in writing. ‒ our movement is in favour of reinstating the death penalty for particularly heinous crimes, such as trafficking in large quantities of drugs and rape of minors.
in writing. the kke is in favour of abolishing the death penalty. but at the same time we point out the hypocritical attitude of the eu on this issue, which supports by all means, political, economic and military, the most reactionary states and governments, which use executions to a large extent as a means of oppressing their peoples, as allied forces in its imperialist interventions, as it characteristically does with the oil monarchies and other reactionary bourgeois regimes in the middle east, north africa, latin america and elsewhere. the joint resolution of the european parliament even uses the sensitive issue of the death penalty as another vehicle for eu interventions in third countries. it uses it, as well as 'human rights' and 'democracy' in general, as the eu selectively conceives them, as a pretext to use the various eu funds intended to finance such actions ('stability and peace facility', 'european instrument for democracy and human rights') to exert pressure and intervene sometimes covertly, sometimes openly in the internal affairs of third countries, with the aim of exploiting their pluto-productive resources and consolidating the positions of european monopolies in the face of increasing inter-imperialist competition.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because we need very strict controls on industrial waste. although hungary has made great efforts since the red mud disaster, legislation must be made stricter and the same for everyone.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because we need very strict controls on industrial waste. although hungary has made great efforts since the red mud disaster, legislation must be made stricter and the same for everyone.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years after the accident in hungary, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/10/2015, in which i also referred to the pollution of many greek rivers, mainly by industrial and municipal waste water. strymon, nestos, axios, lydia, french, pineios, aliacmonas and, above all, asopos are rivers that each face, to varying degrees, pollution problems. the problems are acute in aliakmon and pinios, but in the wider region of asopus, the situation is dramatic and the problem is chronic. measurements in the area indicate the presence of heavy metals and attenuated chromium which are dangerous to public health. the local authorities and, above all, the inhabitants have been fighting this environmental crime for years. the greek government must therefore take all the necessary measures here and now to stop environmental crime on the asopos and other rivers in greece, or else it will be criminally liable, as previous governments have been.
in writing. ‒ the most stringent controls on industrial waste are needed. although hungary has made great efforts since the red-light district disaster, the legislation must be made stricter and the same for everyone.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ gender equality is an important factor in the social, cultural and economic development of countries. but the use of this fundamental value, taken in isolation and without regard to morality and ethics, will lead to criminal acts and destructive practices.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the gender equality is an important factor in the social, cultural and economic development of countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. i am voting against this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/10/2015 and because, in the current global financial crisis, there is a strong discrimination against women and gender pay and pension gaps around the world. in addition, unemployment rates for women far exceed those for men, which further demonstrates discrimination in the recruitment of workers. in greece, which has been impoverished by the memorandum, women are the biggest victims of the crisis. thus, the unemployment rate for women, in the first quarter of 2015, is 30.6% against 23.5% for men. the member states of the european union must strive to eliminate the gender pay gap in the developing world and to impose gender transparency in pension systems. they should also ensure women's rights in relation to motherhood and oppose the unfair dismissal of women workers during their pregnancy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ gender equality is an important factor in the social, cultural and economic development of countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ negative overall, because gender equality includes the natural sexes, i.e. men and women, and not lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals and other such types, as well as ethnic minorities.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the gender equality is an important factor in the social, cultural and economic development of countries. but the use of this fundamental value, taken in isolation and without regard to morality and ethics, will lead to criminal acts and destructive practices. i therefore vote against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i support the report on the implementation of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8 october 2015, and because we see that the pay gap for women continues to exist and that women are paid at least 16% less than men. we have an overrepresentation of women in parttime work, we have an underrepresentation of women in fulltime jobs and we also have pensions that are at least 39% on average lower for women than for men. in particular, now, in the countries affected by the memoranda, it is women who have been hit the hardest by austerity and fiscal adjustment measures. in greece, the latest figures for 2015 show that women have an unemployment rate of 30.6%, while men have 23.5%. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ gender equality is an important factor in the social, cultural and economic development of countries. but the use of this fundamental value in isolation and without regard to morals and ethics will lead to criminal acts and destructive practices.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this report, and the european parliament has taken a similar position in the past, with initiatives and the promotion of specific resolutions. this initiative modernises the eu's workplace equality acquis by consolidating previous directives to enhance their more effective implementation.
it would not be an exaggeration, mr president, to say that migration is one of the major problems which the european union has not yet dealt with with with the seriousness it deserves. but it is never too late to make the right decisions, and above all to take the right action to deal with the problem. the external borders of europe should be protected with the care and responsibility of the states which are situated on them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they don't need joint patrols with turkish naval forces. the only cooperation between greece and turkey could be turkey's obligations not to send thousands of illegal immigrants to greece to cause problems. the centres for the registration and identification of migrants must also be located in the countries from which they are being pushed towards europe, not in the countries of entry. the european union must also be able to take action to help the refugees in the countries of origin. it is not acceptable for greece, with its 11 million inhabitants, to have more than 3 million illegal immigrants.
mr president, mr juncker, you have rightly pointed out that the refugee crisis will last for years. and a few weeks ago you very rightly praised the baker from kos in greece for giving out free bread. but unfortunately, the activation of civil society cannot hide the fact that the european union is doing too little and too late. councilmen, you are not in the chamber at this time. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the council has already made a number of recommendations to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to take them into account. when will the policy on dublin change? when will there be a single european asylum policy? when will we have a single, not 28 immigration and refugee policies? and because chancellor merkel is going to turkey in a few days, the discussion with turkey must not only be about refugees but also about democracy, order, peace in the region. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. cooperation with turkey, yes, mr juncker, but within the limits and rules of my country, greece,'s sovereignty in the aegean, and, of course, under the auspices of the european union.
the european council meeting tomorrow must take important initiatives on the refugee question. the restoration of peace in the middle east and north africa must be a top priority for the union. turkey, instead of being part of the solution in syria, is ultimately part of the problem, supporting daesh and facilitating the trafficking rings to transport thousands of refugees and illegal migrants to the aegean islands. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. but as i said last week in strasbourg, in the absence of mr juncker at the moment, the protection of the greek borders is a sovereign right of greece. we are not going to accept any co-management of our borders with turkey, as merkel is demanding, which must stop its unacceptable interference in the crucial issue of greek border control and the merkel-juncker duo must now realise that greek sovereign rights are non-negotiable.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european council must take bold and ambitious decisions to tackle the refugee crisis. the increase of eur 400 million in european funding is necessary in view of the situation at the eu's external borders. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. in addition to the collective effort required at european level, the eu must also put pressure on third countries to cooperate and stop facilitating the trafficking rings that transport thousands of refugees and illegal migrants to european territory. the case of turkey is typical. turkey must cooperate with europe in this area. but this must in no way mean that the eu is abandoning its fundamental values. the european union must not accept blackmail dilemmas, proposals that infringe on areas of national sovereignty, such as the proposal for the presence of the turkish army on european borders, and other absurd exchanges.
madam president, once again we are discussing today, as we have done so many times before, the issue of global warming. we shall vote once again on a text with which we are all more or less in agreement. but if there is to be any chance of improving the current situation we need something much more drastic than just another agreement. even if we manage to get an agreement in paris, its implementation will face insurmountable obstacles. the recent volkswagen scandal shows that european companies do not respect the decisions and agreements of the european union. i think the union must change its strategy and behave much more aggressively. the accession countries, as well as any other country wishing to have trade and other economic relations with the union, must comply with european environmental protection rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way possible. in any case, the protection of the planet is also our concern, but above all it is the concern of future generations. we cannot be satisfied with just fine words anymore, we demand action and we demand it now.
madam president, the motion for a resolution we are discussing points out that climate change is a huge threat to human societies and that there is an urgent need for action to lead to a legally binding global agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the report is also right to stress the need to exploit clean energy technologies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. as early as 2013, according to a report by the joint research centre of the european commission, the existence of data falsification systems was known. but as punishing the weak, as for example with austerity policies, and protecting the interests of the powerful tends to become a permanent practice, we are not surprised by the refusal to impose sanctions in time.
ecr), in writing. climate change is an undeniable threat to the environment and to people. but the way the upcoming cop21 in paris is being held is not the answer to the problem but an opportunity for the franco-german axis to push climate diplomacy even more aggressively in favour of franco-german interests. the sole objective of these companies is to increase their exports to developing countries which are already suffering the devastating effects of climate change. a phenomenon caused mainly by the carbon dioxide emissions of developed economies such as the united states, china and germany. contrary to these interests, climate change must be addressed urgently because it will result in the creation of millions of climate refugees. it is estimated that already between 2008 and 2013, climate refugees number 166 million. if today the eu, and especially my home country greece, cannot cope with the refugee flows due to the war in syria, imagine how difficult it will be in the future to cope with the huge flows of refugees due to climate change. a first buffer for future management of this issue is the international legal recognition of the climate refugee status.
madam president, for fifteen years european citizens have entrusted the management of their personal data to companies based in the united states, on the basis of the safe harbour decision. they believed in good faith that the european commission had carried out a thorough review of the us data protection regulations, that their personal data was secure and that it was being used for purposes for which they had explicitly given their consent. it would have taken a single person to seek judicial protection of his right to privacy to bring down the so-called safe harbour and prove that european citizens have no legal recourse against the interference of the american authorities with their personal data. the european commission must take up its responsibilities and become the guardian of fundamental rights. instead, so far it has proved a dead end, leaving citizens exposed.
madam president, the transfer of personal data touches the very heart of civil liberties and civil rights, such as the protection of privacy. the european parliament has already expressed strong objections to the transfer of data under the american safe harbour. we therefore welcome the decision of the court of justice of the european union to put a stop to the unacceptable regime of transatlantic transfer of personal data. we therefore expect the full and unconditional implementation of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union in case c-362/14, which was handed down on 6 october and which must be implemented by the european union and the united states. however, the letter and spirit of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union must be strictly applied within the member states of the union, in order to stop the surveillance of citizens and activists within the european union by the various secret services.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the attempt by bourgeois political parties to make the eu a role model is a challenge to the people, following the ruling by the european court of justice that the us has a lower level of protection of personal data than the eu. for many years, not only the us, but also the eu has been instituting a vast network of repression and surveillance mechanisms: the schengen convention, the giant sis i and ii databases, the vis, the directive on the monitoring of telephone and electronic/internet communications in cooperation with the respective monopolies that intertwine for their own interests. all sorts of monitoring, collection and processing of personal data, including biometric data, including children, above all those who develop political and trade union activity, especially communists, trade unionists of the working class movement, other activists. the exchange and interconnection of information, but also fierce competition between all kinds of intelligence services of the member states, the euro-police, and the counterparts of third countries, especially the usa and the cia. this huge network of surveillance and record keeping will take on nightmarish dimensions in the coming period, with the 'smart border', the use of drones for surveillance, the system of recording personal data of passengers of air flights in the eu, modelled on the pnr agreement with the usa.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the ecj decision which annulled commission decision 2000/520 on safe harbours, concerning the adequacy of protection for the processing of personal data transferred from the eu to the us, is of key importance for the future of personal data within the eu. the reasoning of the decision, centred on the eu charter of fundamental rights and directive 95/46/ec, concluded that the us does not ensure a level of protection of personal data equivalent to that of the union and recognised the power of national supervisory authorities to assess compliance with the terms of the directive when transferring data to third countries. it is therefore necessary for the commission to re-prioritize and guarantee the high level of protection of personal and company data transferred from the eu, given that such transfers are unavoidable and create a risk of legal uncertainty. at the same time, the european parliament's questions on the impact of this court decision on other ongoing agreements directly or indirectly related to personal data, such as the umbrella agreement with the us, ttip and the new eu legislative package on data transfers in the context of police and judicial cooperation, are legitimate.
madam president, the nationalist deviation of the reactionary ukrainian government and the continuing imperialist intervention of the european union, the united states and nato are aggravating the situation in ukraine. recently, president poroshenko of ukraine, by a decree, imposed sanctions on hundreds of legal and natural persons, and banned the entry of parliamentarians, journalists and lawyers from other countries. among them are sotiris zarianopoulos, a member of the european parliament for the communist party of greece, george lambroulis, a member of the communist party of greece and vice-president of the greek parliament, and george magnass, a member of the kke, who are jokingly accused of acting against the national interests and integrity of ukraine because kke members were invited to attend the elections in donbass in november 2014 as observers. the accusations of the ukrainian government against the kke officials are baseless and slanderous. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process in the balkans, and it has been a party to the peace process in the balkans. we demand here and now that the unacceptable poroshenko decree be annulled.
madam president, the international community and the european union have decided to provide financial support to ukraine. in this context, they restructured ukraine's public debt as follows: first, they imposed a 20% debt haircut, which led to a debt write-off of eur 18 billion. secondly, they linked the repayment of the remaining debt to a growth clause, which means that ukraine will only repay its debt when there is growth in its economy. in essence, the international community and the european union applied to ukraine the debt cancellation model applied in 1953 to cut west germany's debt at the time. and while the european union has applied debt cancellation and repayment of the balance with a growth clause for ukraine, it refuses to do the same for greece. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is already in the process of adopting a new proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. why are tough measures being applied against greece and not debt cancellation as was done in ukraine? this is supposedly european solidarity with greece? shame on you!
madam president, anti-semitism, islamophobia and hate speech must be eradicated in europe. but today's discussion of anti-semitism brings to mind the mass executions of thousands of greek patriots by the german occupying troops in greece. it brings to mind the thousands of greek patriots, but also the jews from thessaloniki, who were murdered in the nazi concentration camps of auschwitz, dachau and elsewhere. last sunday, 12 october, the greek people celebrated the seventy-first anniversary of the liberation of athens from german occupation troops, while reminding all of europe of the timeliness of germany's debt repayment to greece, which includes: german war reparations, forced occupation loans, compensation to relatives of victims executed by nazi occupation troops and murdered in nazi concentration camps. we therefore demand that germany's debts to greece be paid off here and now, because greece is the creditor and germany is the debtor.
madam president, the multi-million-dollar bill which the greek syriza-anel government has tabled in parliament, implementing the third barbaric memorandum it co-signed with the european union and the international monetary fund, serves the needs of capital and provides for barbaric measures against the people. the commission has already cut back on the pensions, the age limits are being raised again, the social security funds are being strangled by the continuing tax evasion of employers, tax evasion against working-class families is escalating, and the provocative tax exemption for large groups continues. so the poor are given the go-ahead to share the misery with the poor. in practice, it is becoming clear that the application of european union best practice means enslaving workers in order to ensure the profitability of the monopolies. the working people should not consent to the slaughter of the people that the government defiantly claims to have approved by its vote, nor accept the ridicule of measures of equal severity against them. the european union and the united states of america are not only the first to take action against the soviet union, but also the first to take action against the soviet union.
madam president, the syriza-anel coalition government, at the behest of the troika, is implementing the disastrous third memorandum which is turning greece into a vast social graveyard. the new government, which has just been formed, is already voting on the famous preconditions, which are cutting wages and pensions, dissolving the social security system, introducing a tax-grabbing assault on the private property of greeks, deepening the recession and driving thousands of small and medium-sized businesses into the ground, while opening the way for banks to take the homes of greek citizens. the agricultural memorandum, the troika and the five memoranda: syriza-anel, nd, pasok, potami, are dismantling the primary sector, overtaxing agricultural land, increasing production costs and even taxing the tsipouro and the tsikouda. our political movement, the citizens who oppose the memorandum, will stand against the third memorandum and will give our support to the new struggles of our people to throw the troika out of our country and take back greece.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the vis visa system of the council proposal needs a comprehensive review, as does the schengen treaty. it concerns not only the vis, sis ii and eyrodac systems but also the schengen and dublin treaties. 2. the lack of systems was clearly seen in the recent issuance of travel documents to illegal immigrants who did not have travel documents, refused to give fingerprints and after examination through the biometrics recognition and identification system, proved to be isis fighters.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the vis visa system of the council proposal needs a comprehensive review, as does the schengen treaty. it concerns not only the vis, sis ii and eyrodac systems but also the schengen and dublin treaties. 2. the lack of systems was clearly seen in recent travel document grants to illegal immigrants who did not have travel documents, refused to give fingerprints and, after examination through the biometrics recognition and identification system, were found to be isis fighters. for these reasons, my vote is against.
in writing. ‒ this legislative act (decision) concerns the date of effect of the visa information system (vis). vis was designated by the member states and europol in order to prevent terrorist offences. legally, this legislative act on vis’ access should take effect once the member states will be able to exchange data between them. i am opposed to any law—enforcement authority to access vis, since it can stigmatize migrants. this is why i chose to abstain.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the report on the draft council implementing decision establishing the operational start of council decision 2008/633/5/jha on access to the visa information system (vis) of the designated authorities of the member states and of europol for the purpose of searching for data for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences, because it is sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the vis visa system in the council proposal needs a comprehensive review, as does the schengen treaty. it concerns not only the vis, sis ii and eyrodac systems but also the schengen and dublin treaties 2. the lack of systems was clearly seen in the recent issuance of travel documents to illegal immigrants, who did not have travel documents, refused to give fingerprints and after examination through the biometrics recognition and identification system, proved to be isis fighters.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against draft amending budget no 6/2015: own resources - union trust fund for external action - service of the body of european regulators for electronic communications, because the budget resources are not being managed properly.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the position of the council with regard to draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, 'own resources, union trust fund for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications', because it is sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ budgetary resources are not being managed properly.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, as this would allow financial support for the measures decided by the council and the european council to deal with the refugee crisis. in greece last summer we experienced the inability of the state and european machinery to deal with this unprecedented refugee crisis, which is not expected to be contained immediately. as the money originally budgeted for refugee support actions proved to be insufficient, it was deemed necessary to use the flexibility instrument to provide additional money.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because we are calling for the asylum and integration funds for illegal immigrants to be strengthened. the solution proposed to manage the situation is purely temporary.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration, because it calls for the strengthening of the asylum and integration funds for illegal immigrants. the solution proposed to manage the situation is purely temporary.
in writing. ‒ this report is a combination of an exceptional and urgent procedure to enable a transfer to mobilise the emergency aid reserve to enable transfer and to help refugees and migrants immediately. the commission proposed the transfer of eur 175 million, to provide immediate humanitarian aid. nevertheless, the commission also proposed mobilising the flexibility instrument in 2015. i voted in favour of this report, since i believe that the multiannual financial framework needed to be revised in order to reply to the migration crisis. by voting yes, i support the revision and an immediate reply to the migration crisis.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate financial measures under the european agenda on migration, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because i agree with the proposed allocation of the respective payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017 despite the fact that these are small payments which do not solve the migration problem. we therefore call for the dublin iii directive to be abolished immediately.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ strengthening the asylum and integration funds for illegal immigrants must include actions of a permanent nature and not be a temporary solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration, as it is necessary to provide financial support both to the member states receiving the largest influx of refugees and to the union institutions responsible in this area.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the amending budget no 7 for 2015 makes the necessary changes to finance the actions decided on 23 september to respond to the refugee crisis. the amendments increase by eur 400 million for 2015 the funding of agencies related to the assistance of member states in the field of asylum, such as the asylum, migration and integration fund, the european asylum office, frontex, europol and the european neighbourhood instrument.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against draft amending budget 07/2015 because it calls for the strengthening of the asylum, migration and integration funds as well as the creation of additional jobs to support these funds. we believe that the institutions are wrong in their handling of the refugee crisis, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against draft amending budget 07/2015, because it calls for the strengthening of the asylum, migration and integration funds, as well as the creation of additional jobs to strengthen these funds. i think that the way the institutions are handling the refugee crisis is wrong, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, 'managing the refugee crisis: immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration', as the union needs to make more efforts to address the current migration and refugee crisis, given that the proposed measures are not comprehensive and sufficient. the commission should therefore present a long-term financial programme to deal with the migration and refugee crisis.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the increased funding from the eu budget to deal with refugee flows is not intended to relieve the acute problems of refugees, to create infrastructure for their accommodation and human livelihood, but to strengthen their repression and persecution. the increased funds will be used to strengthen frontex, europol and the eu asylum service. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european police force to protect the citizens of the european union, and for the european union to take action to protect the citizens of the european union. for new law enforcement agencies, like the upcoming euro-agency. they are aimed at the creation of so-called "hot spots", centers for the sorting and deportation of the unhappy migrants and refugees, the so-called "eu special fund for syria" and the eu's european neighbourhood policy financial instruments, which finance the eu's imperialist intervention in that country and the wider region. the committee also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the implementation of the directive is not delayed, and for the commission to be given the power to adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we believe that the institutions' handling of the refugee crisis is wrong because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported the report on the amending budget for the management of the refugee crisis, which will provide for the adoption of immediate budgetary changes in order to implement the decisions of the informal european council of 23 september on migration. the seven-year institutional framework of the eu budget clearly needs to be revised, as the refugee crisis is not a passing phenomenon.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the case in question is a form of political persecution, unprecedented in european history, based on a photographic law for alleged espionage against the european parliament. anyone who wants to 'spy' on the european parliament can go to its website and see all its documents posted for public viewing. the orbán government is the only one in the eu that has politicized a non-existent crime, that of spying against the eu, with the sole purpose of hitting its political opponents. as a movement that has suffered political persecution, but also the terrorism of the state, we stand in solidarity with those persecuted for their political beliefs.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács because this case is unprecedented in european history, a form of political persecution based on a photographic law for alleged espionage against the european parliament. anyone who wants to 'spy' on the ep can go to its website and see all its documents posted for public viewing. the orbán government is the only one in the eu that has politicized a non-existent crime, that of spying against the eu, with the sole purpose of hitting its political opponents. as a movement that has suffered political persecution and the terror of the state, we stand in solidarity with those who are persecuted for their political beliefs.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this case is a form of political prosecution, unprecedented in european history, based on a photographic law for alleged espionage against the european parliament. the orbán government is the only one in the eu that has politicized a non-existent crime, that of spying against the eu, with the sole purpose of hitting its political opponents.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we consider it a mockery to elect a person without a co-candidate. such election systems are implemented in north korea.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i do not support the appointment of the deputy executive director of the efsi as, in the absence of another candidate, this person is in fact appointed and not elected. it is therefore a person appointed and appointed. such election systems are implemented in north korea.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for the appointment of the deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments, because i do not agree with the proposal.
in writing. ‒ we consider it undemocratic to "elect" a person without a co-candidate.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we consider it a mockery to elect a person without a co-candidate. such election systems are implemented in north korea.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i do not support the appointment of the executive director of the efsi as his election is imposed without democratic means. such election systems are implemented in north korea.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for the appointment of the executive director of the european fund for strategic investments, because i do not agree with the proposal.
in writing. ‒ we consider it undemocratic to "elect" a person without a co-candidate.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because, although the text contains many positive elements, it does endorse the carbon trading system, which we are opposed to.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the new international climate agreement in paris. the report contains many positive elements, but it welcomes the carbon trading system, which i am opposed to.
in writing. ‒ this report towards a new international climate agreement in paris proposes resolutions which go beyond the existing statement of the european commission and the council. the main improvements of the report are to get civil society involved, to respect human rights, to limit the rise of temperature at global level below an average of 2° c, and last but not least to reduce also greenhouse gas emissions. i voted in favour of this report, since it supports important changes for a new international climate agreement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on a new international climate agreement in paris because the issue of climate change is a global problem and a threat to the environment and to man. the report rightly stresses the need for a legally binding agreement at world level. the report also highlights the future increase in refugee flows due to this phenomenon. i support the report on this point because it is very important that the status of environmental refugee should be internationally legally recognized.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu's climate and energy strategy and its targets for agreement at the forthcoming international conference in paris serve the interests of large business groups. the eu is exploiting climate change to open up new areas of profitability for monopolies in the fields of 'green technologies', renewable sources and other forms of 'low-carbon' energy. it seeks to use its comparative advantage in developing the relevant technologies to strengthen the position of european monopoly groups in the growing imperialist competition for market conquest and the predatory exploitation of resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as long as monopolies dominate the economy and power, all the people's problems will worsen, the environment will deteriorate, as will the health and quality of life of the workers. the enormous development of science and technology will be used to increase the profitability of business rather than to meet the growing needs of the people. the people can prosper if they decide to confront the system of capitalist exploitation and become the owners of the wealth they produce.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the text contains many positive elements but welcomes the carbon trading system, which we are opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i too supported the report by the environment committee on the new international climate agreement in paris. climate change is a fact and the eu must have a unified voice at the forthcoming paris conference. we need an international agreement which is both ambitious and fair to all the parties.
the commission mr president, tax evasion and avoidance is the modern scourge of the euro area economies. the champions in this anti-social sport have been the multinational companies, which, through the system of intra-group transactions, have avoided paying billions of euros in taxes. their allies are various tax havens and some eurozone member states that engage in tax dumping and unfair practices, thus giving multinationals vital leeway to avoid paying billions of euros in taxes to countries like greece, where multinationals make their super profits. luxembourg, with its well-known lux leaks, and the netherlands are giving cover to german and other multinationals in order to avoid taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. moreover, mr moscovici, the troika in greece is whistling indifference and covering up all the greek governments that refuse to use the lagarde list and tax greek oligarchs who have illegal deposits in switzerland. why would i do that ?
the commission mr president, commissioner moscovici, it is a common assumption among those who operate in the market that, while we are discussing here the strengthening of the institutional framework to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax avoidance find other ways and eventually bypass us. so for me the question is how quickly can automatic exchange of information be implemented in the tax system; how quickly can it become mandatory in practice; how quickly can we have a single tax register for businesses; how quickly can we know where and who has deposits, real and movable property, not only within the european union but also outside it. the european union cannot function as an island, and the example of the famous lagarde list in greece, the falciani list, which breeds so many myths and creates so many problems, only increase the lack of confidence that european citizens have in our ability to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance.
the commission mr president, the tourism sector plays an important role in completing the internal market, while at the same time being a pillar of growth for the economies of the european union and especially for greece. although millions of eu citizens prefer package holidays and package tours, the different national practices create obstacles to competition and, in particular, to the free provision of package travel services. measures are therefore needed to protect consumers who purchase package holidays, particularly in relation to the insolvency of the organiser and, in particular, of the tour operators. on the other hand, tourist packages must be structured in such a way as to contribute to the development of local economies in a balanced way and at the same time to enhance the creation of domestic added value. on the contrary, the much-hyped 'all inclusive' packages, especially in greece, lead to the de-capitalization of small and medium-sized tourism businesses, marginalize local products, increase unemployment and only work to generate excess profits for tour operators and large hotel units, and this practice must stop immediately.
the commission mr president, we must by our vote prevent the trade in certain objects which can be used for killing, torture, severe and cruel and inhuman punishment. the question is not legal, economic, commercial, formal or procedural; it is primarily a moral one. the death penalty and torture violate human rights, offend the personality of the individual and set mankind back centuries if not thousands of years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is not reasonable to say that we are christians, that we are humanists, that we are democrats and to tolerate all these things happening. the european union as a whole and each individual country must control trade in these objects and prevent human dignity from being violated for economic and commercial gain.
the commission mr president, the death penalty, torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment and punishment are prohibited by international and european treaties. in this context, the european regulation against torture is an effective instrument for the protection of human rights, as it imposes effective controls on items and activities used for capital punishment or torture. but there is an urgent need to reorganise the european union's controls on the trade in instruments of torture, and this has been delayed many times. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the control of exports of dual-use items included in the lists of military equipment which could also be used for torture should be particularly intensified. the european union's double-talk, which is attempting to legalise the export of medicinal products for which the european union is a major producer, even though they may be used for torture or capital punishment, must also be stopped.
the commission mr president, the european citizens' initiative, established by the treaty of lisbon, is a major achievement for the peoples of europe and strengthens participatory democracy within the union. at the same time, it is a form of broad cooperation between citizens and movements at union level, thus strengthening the bonds of solidarity and social action. as the ecr coordinator in the committee on petitions, i have repeatedly pointed out the weaknesses of the existing legal framework of regulation 11/79 of 2011, which needs to be amended in order to: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. the european citizens' initiative is a primary exercise of the democratic function itself, which could be used by citizens and movements in the european south to create a broad front against austerity and poverty, against the insolvency of the european central bank and the europe of the banks, and we citizens who are against the memorandum will take the initiative in this matter.
the commission mr president, since 2014, sierra leone, guinea and liberia have been affected by the ebola virus, while other african countries have been experiencing long-standing cases of the virus. however, these countries are not just experiencing the ebola crisis but a more systemic crisis, with 80% of the population living in extreme poverty. of course, the european union's response to contain ebola was not as immediate and highly effective as doctors without borders and the red cross, which proved to be better prepared to help african populations cope with ebola. it is therefore necessary for the european union to make better use of the capacities of these humanitarian organisations and also to strengthen medical research in order to produce drugs and vaccines for ebola. in addition, it is necessary to write off the debt of the african countries affected by the virus so that the countries can invest more in their health systems instead of paying the international usurious lenders, because their systems have literally been dismantled by the international monetary fund.
the commission mr president, in order to ensure transparency and democratic accountability to the taxpayers of the european union, the european parliament, on the basis of articles 316, 317 and 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, has the right to grant discharge for each section of the union budget separately, and therefore also for the european council - council section. but the council considers itself to be a state within a state, to be above all control, and that is why for many years it has not answered the questions of the european parliament. the council's expenditure must be controlled in the same way as that of the other institutions of the european union. the council is showing a lack of cooperation. refuses to provide a detailed written explanation of the total amount of appropriations used to purchase the residence palace building. i therefore support mr tsarnaev's report, which does not grant the secretary-general of the council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european council and the council.
the commission the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. 28 october 1940: a timely milestone in the greek resistance to fascism. then, the brave defense of our country by the people was reflected in the phrase "heroes fight like greeks". men, women and children stood up, giving even their lives for the freedom of the fatherland, fighting vigorously against fascism. today, 75 years later, we are again called upon to defend our national sovereignty and the dignity of our people by opposing the international moneylenders and the troika, who are systematically impoverishing greece. the greeks, drawing strength and lessons from our history, will set the historical example of resistance to modern methods of enslavement of peoples, abolishing the memoranda, cancelling the humiliating debt and demanding the immediate payment of german war reparations, the forced occupation loan and compensation to the relatives of the thousands of victims murdered by the nazi occupation troops in greece during the second world war.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information and communication services provided by the european union. at the same time, the digital age offers new opportunities for the world's economies and businesses to grow and become more competitive. the increase in productivity is now dependent to the greatest extent on investment in new technologies. in this context, the european single market for electronic communications is playing a key role in europe's transition to the new digital age. but this requires, first, net neutrality, which ensures equal free access for consumers and businesses, and, second, the abolition of roaming charges, which will contribute to the free movement of persons and services and to the enhancement of the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises. for these reasons, roaming should be abolished immediately, by 2015, as was the initial target, and not by 2017, because this is how electronic customs are maintained. so, here and now, immediate abolition of roaming without conditions.
the commission mr president, the decisions taken by the council of europe on 15 october are the result of the panic which has gripped the leaders of the countries of europe over the sudden and massive influx of thousands of illegal immigrants and their inability to deal with the crisis which has arisen from this problem. the only thing they have done is to raise the profile of turkey, a country which is largely responsible for both creating and exacerbating the migration problem. instead of demanding that turkey, which is not meeting the criteria of the copenhagen treaty and is a candidate country, abide by its obligations and not send thousands of illegal migrants to greece, the european union tolerates it blackmailing cyprus with partition if it does not yield to its pressures and demands and at the same time, at the behest of mrs merkel, offers mr erdogan three billion euros, despite the fact that he refuses to take them and wants more and possibly twice as much. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission mr president, in five days last week, despite the rough seas, the aegean islands were flooded by 48 000 new refugees, adding to the 450 000 refugees who had already flooded greece since the beginning of the year. on the basis of the european union-wide allocation of refugees according to the size, population and gdp of each country, as recently decided by the european council, greece must take in a maximum of 11 000 refugees. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. greece cannot be turned into a huge refugee favela. the greek people, impoverished by the memoranda, cannot take in any more refugees, and you must understand that. as you must also understand that the protection of the greek borders is one of the sovereign rights of greece. it is time to stop feeding turkey and force it to end the slave trade that is operating on its territory. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is a question of a viable european solution, a humanitarian solution, to the problem of refugee flows. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the debate, but also the european parliament itself. my country, greece, cannot bear the burden alone, and it bears the greatest burden; it can't be a storehouse of souls and winter is coming and the aegean is becoming a graveyard every day. when will dublin iii finally change? when will you take peaceful, european initiatives on the war in syria? when will you finally flexibly implement the stability pact in the countries bearing the burden of the refugee crisis?
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is too much for the greek government to pretend that it has prevented them, because greece is being turned into a concentration camp for over 50,000 refugees trapped in a new version of dublin. the sorting centers will take in the qualified refugees, at the behest of the monopolies, and the rest, most of them, will be redirected. the european union, the united states and nato are responsible for the wars that are being waged. the joint patrols between greece and turkey are a method of co-management in the aegean, while the assignment to frontex of a role of repression of refugees at the greek-scopian and greek-albanian borders and the concentration of rapid intervention forces means that the wolf is guarding the sheep, that is, the european union is guarding the border by abolishing any notion of sovereign right. the peoples can demand immediate measures to support refugees and oppose imperialist interventions, the eu's repressive mechanisms, denouncing the very capitalist system that generates wars, poverty and refugees. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder how many more years the commission and the council will have to discuss how to deal with this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. in the face of this harsh reality, this tragic reality, we have seen yesterday's farce of the mini-summit. the conclusions we are discussing today are beyond criticism and an insult to the millions of refugees, to the thousands of dead, and of course to european civilization, and the humanitarian crisis has exposed the nakedness of european policy. germany openly wants to turn the south, and especially greece, into a vast concentration camp, thus reinforcing closed-border policies within the european union. at the same time, it is playing dangerous destabilising games with turkey, to the detriment of both european enlargement policy and greek sovereign rights. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. i have said it before, therefore, that the humanitarian crisis goes far beyond the dilemma of what kind of europe we want. if we continue with this policy, there will simply be no europe.
the commission the council has held an important meeting. there was an increase in the capacity to receive 100,000 refugees, along the entire length of the balkan corridor, from the greek border to the austrian border with germany. only greece was given the option, that is, greece accepted to have 50,000 more refugees and to create hot spots for the registration and identification centre for refugees. so, welcome 30,000 refugees and provide for another 20,000 refugees, with rent subsidies and the support of the united nations high commissioner for refugees. what was missing from the meeting was turkey, joint action, a joint action programme with turkey, away from oriental bargaining, and in view of the elections in turkey. the meeting with the african states was missing. it is important that mr tusk and mr juncker announced the meeting in valletta. i think he has a lot to offer our joint effort. but what is missing most of all are the rich arab states, with the exception of lebanon and jordan. in saudi arabia alone, ladies and gentlemen, there are tented facilities ready for 3 million refugees. we are all being judged, the european union is being judged. we are judged on whether we have done our duty ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
s & d) and the the 19 points of the agreement were presented to us yesterday, mr president, and it is very important if it is to be implemented, because it is the cowardly and late responses that have caused the problem in the host societies and that are fuelling xenophobia. but we must warn you again: without a permanent relocation mechanism, refugees will not even spend three days in reception centres, if these can become prisons, and without asylum applications to european offices in turkey and permanent routes, safe approach routes, drownings in the aegean will not stop. there is an answer: tilos, a small island, lost in the eastern aegean, forgotten by god and government, without doctor and teacher. but tilos has asked for 100 syrian refugee families to be permanently settled on the island. there is leadership, there is a community leader who shows the way of solidarity and the residents organize and follow.
the commission mr president, the small summit on 25 october decided, among other things, to host 30,000 refugees in greece by the end of the year and another 20,000 with a rent subsidy from the european union. in a country that has been in an economic crisis for six years with nightmarish unemployment, no food, no clothing, no health care can be provided to these people, but only problems with unforeseen consequences. the decision effectively cancels the measure to relocate 64,400 refugees from greece, which has been in force since last october. a serious approach to the refugee problem means responsible cooperation with turkey, a country of transit, in order to respect the readmission agreements signed, but above all to effectively control the smuggling networks that exploit the waves of migrants to europe, otherwise the refugee issue risks becoming a ticking time bomb on the foundations of the european union. (applause from the centre and the right)
in writing. ‒ since these council directives and regulations have become obsolete and therefore obsolete, they should be repealed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the common agricultural policy, since these council regulations and directives have become obsolete and therefore obsolete, and should therefore be abolished.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec fixing a maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, because the report is well documented. i would also like to inform the house that the troika is continuing its anti-social attack on the greek people. the agricultural memorandum dissolves the primary sector, increases production costs, taxes the land and agricultural production and imposes increased insurance contributions on farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. i support the struggle of the greek farmers and i will stand by them in their just demands for productive reconstruction, for strengthening the primary sector, for supporting livestock farming and for throwing the troika out of our country and taking back greece.
in writing. ‒ since these council directives and regulations have become obsolete and therefore obsolete, they should be repealed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the member states must conclude transnational agreements to enable them to investigate and bring to justice economic crimes quickly, reliably and always in accordance with the law. the european union must help the states in this endeavour in such a way that their sovereign rights are not infringed. we do not agree with the provisions of articles 5 and 6 of the report, as they violate the principle of the protection of personal data and do not allow states to cooperate with switzerland in order to hand over the data of their nationals and to examine their bank accounts.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the eu-switzerland agreement on the abolition of banking secrecy for eu citizens. where there is evidence of money accounts which have been illegally acquired and are therefore the product of economic crime, the authorities should be informed to take appropriate action. this is something that will make it harder to hide money from the tax authorities. transparency in all transactions is a constant in our movement. the end of banking secrecy is a very important step in the fight against tax evasion so that "thieves go to jail and the stolen goods go back to the people".
in writing. ‒ this is a great success for which the ep has worked systematically and efficiently. the exchange of relevant information is extremely crucial for any effort to control black money and to tackle illegal economic activities and the black economy.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26/10/2015 and because multinational companies have emerged as champions in avoiding tax through the intra-group system. their allies are various tax havens and some eurozone member states that engage in tax dumping and unfair practices, thus giving multinationals vital leeway to avoid paying billions of euros in taxes to countries like greece. luxembourg, with its well-known lux leaks, and the netherlands are giving cover to german and other multinationals in order to avoid taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. moreover, the troika in greece covers up all greek governments that refuse to use the lagarde list and tax greek oligarchs who have illegal deposits in switzerland.
in writing. the eu-switzerland agreement on the exchange of financial account information is far from requiring the transmission of all the information necessary to uncover the tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering of large business groups and the plutocracy. apart from the fact that it is not even explicitly binding, it does not provide for the exchange of all the details of information which would at least allow identification. the exchange of information is carried out on an annual basis, which gives a long time margin for variation and consequence avoidance. the main one is that it introduces a number of conditions, such as the non-disclosure of information resulting from complaints or where it is considered (even arbitrary) to be contrary to 'public policy' or 'confidential'. all these restrictions essentially remove any binding character of the exchange of information and leave room for selective disclosure of information. the agreement is thus made "in the eyes of the world" to appease popular indignation at the provocative tax immunity of the plutocracy and monopoly groups, at the same time that eu and bourgeois governments are crushing the people with all kinds of taxes. the conclusion is that as long as monopolies and a profit-oriented market economy prevail, big business will find both legal and illegal ways to accumulate wealth.
in writing. ‒ states should conclude transnational agreements to enable them to investigate and bring to justice economic crimes quickly, reliably and always in accordance with the law. the european union must help the states in this endeavour in such a way that their sovereign rights are not infringed.
in writing. the eu-switzerland agreement on the exchange of financial account information is far from requiring the transmission of all the information necessary to uncover the tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering of large business groups and the plutocracy. apart from the fact that it is not even explicitly binding, it does not provide for the exchange of all the details of information which would at least allow identification. the exchange of information is carried out on an annual basis, which gives a long time margin for variation and consequence avoidance. the main one: it introduces a number of conditions, such as the non-disclosure of information from complaints or when it is considered (even arbitrary) to be contrary to 'public policy' or when it is classified as 'confidential'. all these restrictions essentially remove any binding character of the exchange of information and leave room for selective disclosure of information. the agreement is thus made "in the eyes of the world" to appease popular indignation at the provocative tax immunity of the plutocracy and monopoly groups, at the same time that eu and bourgeois governments are crushing the people with all kinds of taxes. the conclusion is that as long as monopolies and a profit-oriented market economy prevail, big business will find both legal and illegal ways to accumulate wealth.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the proposed text contains legal loopholes.
s&d), in writing. ‒ progress is significant, but significant work is still needed to achieve internal harmonisation of the taxation of income arising from interest on deposits.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive on the repeal of council directive 2003/48/ec for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26/10/2015 and because tax evasion and avoidance are the modern scourge of the euro area economies. the champions have been the multinational companies, which have avoided paying billions of euros in taxes through the system of intra-group transactions. their allies are various tax havens and some eurozone member states, which engage in tax dumping and unfair practices, thus giving vital space to multinationals to avoid paying billions of euros in taxes in countries like greece. luxembourg, with its well-known lux leaks, and the netherlands are giving cover to german and other multinationals in order to avoid taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. moreover, the troika in greece is whistling indifference and covering up all greek governments that refuse to use the lagarde list and tax greek oligarchs who have illegal deposits in switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text contains legal loopholes.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom (if the relevant criteria are met) of each member state to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. sweden has been assessed successfully and the submission of the data protection assessment questionnaire was successful.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom of each member state (if the relevant criteria are met) to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. sweden has been assessed successfully and the submission of the data protection assessment questionnaire was successful. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in sweden, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom (if the relevant criteria are met) of each member state to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. sweden has been assessed successfully and the submission of the data protection assessment questionnaire was successful.
in writing. ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom (if the relevant criteria are met) of each member state to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. belgium has been successful in the evaluation and the submission of the data protection evaluation questionnaire.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom of each member state (if the relevant criteria are met) to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. belgium has been successful in the evaluation and the submission of the data protection evaluation questionnaire. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in belgium, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom (if the relevant criteria are met) of each member state to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. belgium has successfully completed the evaluation and submitted the data protection evaluation questionnaire.
in writing. ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom (if the relevant criteria are met) of each member state to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. poland has been assessed as successful and the submission of the data protection assessment questionnaire was successful.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom of each member state (if the relevant criteria are met) to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. poland has been assessed as successful and the submission of the data protection assessment questionnaire was successful. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in poland, as it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the the exchange of fingerprint data as a measure to prevent criminal offences, but especially possible terrorist acts, is moving in the right direction. the clause in the treaty on the freedom (if the relevant criteria are met) of each member state to implement the exchange is a positive step, especially for the protection of sensitive personal data and privacy as provided for in the charter of fundamental rights. poland has been assessed as successful and the submission of the data protection assessment questionnaire was successful.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the outcome of the agreement between the council and the european parliament, as this proposal revises the legislation on package holidays after 25 years, strengthening consumer rights, updating the provisions on the basis of the case law, experience and technological developments of the last 25 years.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament rejects the council's position at first reading, and we therefore endorse the european parliament's position. in particular, we must prevent unfair commercial practices by certain companies that provide travel services and, in the course of providing these services, provide other services online in an unclear, ambiguous and disguised manner. for these reasons i voted against the recommendation for a second reading.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european parliament rejects the council's position at first reading, and i therefore endorse the european parliament's position. in particular, we need to prevent unfair commercial practices by certain travel companies which, in the course of providing their services online, simultaneously provide other services in an unclear, ambiguous and disguised manner. for these reasons, i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading.
(gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ this report proposes a review of the existing regulation in order to strengthen the control of torture tools. the main points of this report are: the prohibition of online and offline marketing, to set up a regular reporting, to review the system by the european commission and to consider that eu exports to third countries do not contribute to inhuman practices. last but not least, the european union will also have to update it lists with goods and substances which are banned for exports. i voted in favour of this report, since it improves the commission’s proposal.
ecr), in writing. ‒ in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26/10/2015, i expressed certain reservations with regard to this recommendation for a second reading.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the european parliament rejects the council's position at first reading. in particular, we must prevent unfair commercial practices by certain companies that provide travel services and, in the course of providing these services, provide other services online in an unclear, ambiguous and disguised manner.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the we agree with the european parliament in rejecting the council's position at first reading. we must not allow the regulators to decide the future of the internet in europe. the report does not satisfy the need to ensure access to the internet and to protect the rights of european citizens. this text is vague and may allow for interpretations that may lead to discrimination on the internet, eliminating freedom of expression, economic growth and innovation. finally, it does not ensure or promote the abolition of roaming charges directly.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i agree with the european parliament in rejecting the council's position at first reading. we must not allow the regulators to decide the future of the internet in europe. the report does not satisfy the need to ensure access to the internet and to protect the rights of european citizens. this text is vague and may allow for interpretations that can lead to discrimination on the internet by stifling freedom of expression, economic development and innovation. finally, it does not ensure or promote the abolition of roaming charges directly.
in writing. – the vote in this particular item is one of the most important when it comes to the discussion about the digital future of europe. it is true that we were more ambitious than the final text reflects, but the s&d group managed, through fierce negotiations lasting for months, to secure that the forthcoming digital single market strategy will be based on a solid foundation. we have managed, on behalf of the european citizens, to abolish roaming charges across europe, starting from 15 june 2017. additionally, the non-discriminatory basis of our internet and digital activities is secured via the provisions included in the text regarding net neutrality. it goes without saying that we had been aiming to higher standards, but this text, though not perfectly reflective of the s&d group’s perception, is a solid concrete step in the right direction, towards which s&d is leading the way.
κούλογλου (gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the main point of this report is to create a single market for electronic communications in order to have access to electronic services without cross-border restrictions or costs. one key aspect is ‘net neutrality’, which means that all internet traffic must be equally treated. the ‘net neutrality’ aspect is an important improvement, for consumers’ rights in order to open internet access. the abolition of roaming charges is also a positive change. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to open internet access and amending directive 2002/22/ec on the universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26/10/2015, and because this recommendation for a second reading is complete and well-founded.
in writing. the kke voted against the regulation which aims to shape the eu's single capital market in electronic communications networks and services. the regulation promotes even greater dominance of the internet by large industry monopolies, which will lead to the concentration and monopolisation of relevant services, resulting in the imposition of new and increased financial burdens on users, as well as control of the network and the services provided. the reactionary nature of the regulation is concealed behind the abolition of roaming charges, which is also presented as a means of communicating the eu's anti-people policy. the committee calls for the immediate abolition of roaming charges, without any further burden on users. all the technological conditions are in place for the immediate abolition of the charges, which at the request of the business groups was extended until june 2017 and we see, with the compensation of course for the business groups, that they will moreover make up for the loss of revenue from the increase in the use of mobile telephony and its applications abroad. the people must take power and the means of production into their own hands if they are to enjoy the immense benefits of technological and scientific progress.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report does not satisfy the need to ensure access to the internet and to protect the rights of european citizens. this text is unclear and may allow for interpretations that may lead to discrimination on the internet and thus indirectly undermine freedom of expression, economic growth and innovation.
in writing. the kke voted against the regulation which aims to shape the eu's single capital market in electronic communications networks and services. the regulation promotes even greater dominance of the internet by large industry monopolies, which will lead to the concentration and monopolisation of relevant services, resulting in the imposition of new and increased financial burdens on users, as well as control of the network and the services provided. the reactionary nature of the regulation is concealed behind the abolition of roaming charges, which is also presented as a means of communicating the eu's anti-people policy. the committee calls for the immediate abolition of roaming charges, without any further burden on users. all the technological conditions are in place for the immediate abolition of the charges, which at the request of the business groups was extended until june 2017 and we see, with the compensation of course for the business groups, that they will moreover make up for the loss of revenue from the increase in the use of mobile telephony and its applications abroad. the people must take power and the means of production into their own hands if they are to enjoy the immense benefits of technological and scientific progress.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the report sets out parliament's position on the negotiations with the council on the rules to be applied to trade in products liable to be used for capital punishment. the socialist and democratic group, in alliance with other political groups, has succeeded in introducing a provision in the regulation which will allow the customs authorities to seize all items which may or may not be included in the regulation but there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that they may be used for capital punishment or torture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action in the field of trade policy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report as a whole, as it requires amendments to ensure that the sale of objects that could be used for killing, torture and humiliating treatment or punishment is prohibited.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because i am not satisfied with the text proposed by the commission. i believe that more drastic measures could be taken in relation to the trade in certain items which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
(gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ this report proposes a review of the existing regulation in order to strengthen the control of torture tools. the main points of this report are: the prohibition of online and offline marketing, to set up a regular reporting, to review the system by the european commission and to consider that the eu exports to third countries do not contribute to inhuman practices. last but not least, the european union will also have to update it lists with goods and substances which are banned for exports. i voted in favour of this report, since it improves the commission’s proposal.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, because the report is comprehensive and well-founded and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report as a whole needs amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation will significantly help to enhance the transparency of financial transactions and will prevent the existence of tax havens created by companies lacking transparency and knowledge of the tax regulations applicable in each member state.
in writing. ‒ this project will cost european taxpayers €2.1 billion over four years. but results are not guaranteed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this particular draft because it will cost european taxpayers €2.1 billion over four years and the results are not guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the the social democrats have been calling for many years for an automatic exchange of information, particularly in the area of tax rulings and state aid. there is still a long way to go before the council shows the same sensitivity to the issue and moves in the direction proposed by the ep. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
kouloglou (gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ this report is to ensure the mandatory automatic exchange of information between member states in tax matters, after the luxleaks scandal. this report is an improvement in the following areas: deletion of the ‘cross-border’ element, immediate exchange of information and an improvement regarding the council's position. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory exchange of information in the field of taxation, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26/10/2015 and because tax evasion and avoidance are the modern scourge of the euro area economies. the champions have been the multinational companies, which have avoided paying billions of euros in taxes through the system of intra-group transactions. their allies are various tax havens and some eurozone member states that engage in tax dumping and unfair practices, thus giving multinationals vital leeway to avoid paying billions of euros in taxes to countries like greece. luxembourg, with its well-known lux leaks, and the netherlands are giving cover to german and other multinationals in order to avoid taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. moreover, the troika in greece is whistling indifference and covering up all greek governments that refuse to use the lagarde list and tax greek oligarchs who have illegal deposits in switzerland.
in writing. the directive on the exchange of information between member states on favourable tax rulings for businesses is not intended to limit the tax incentives of multinational groups and the immunity of monopolies. the final text limits its initially limited scope to crossborder cases only, extends the time in which information is exchanged and reduces it to five years before the tax authorities are obliged to notify their decisions. as the directive itself acknowledges, decisions by national tax authorities granting all kinds of tax advantages and tax exemptions to large groups are 'lawful' under their national law. the supreme law of every capitalist state and every bourgeois government is to protect capitalist property and capital profits by its legislation. the very nature of the eu, which is based on the free movement of capital, legitimises and serves the tax exemption of business groups, for which the eu institutions are hypocritically and provocatively shedding crocodile tears. the peoples can live without monopolies and without exploitation, when they decide to put an end to their power, taking into their own hands the wealth they produce.
in writing. the directive on the exchange of information between member states on favourable tax rulings for businesses is not intended to limit the tax incentives of multinational groups and the immunity of monopolies. the final text limits its initially limited scope to crossborder cases only, extends the time in which information is exchanged and reduces it to five years before the tax authorities are obliged to notify their decisions. as the directive itself acknowledges, decisions by national tax authorities granting all kinds of tax advantages and tax exemptions to large groups are 'lawful' under their national law. the supreme law of every capitalist state and every bourgeois government is to protect capitalist property and capital profits by its legislation. the very nature of the eu, which is based on the free movement of capital, legitimises and serves the tax exemption of business groups, for which the eu institutions are hypocritically and provocatively shedding crocodile tears. the peoples can live without monopolies and without exploitation, when they decide to put an end to their power, taking into their own hands the wealth they produce.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the proposal for a decision on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge of the artemis joint undertaking and does not fill the gaps identified in the corresponding previous one, which was voted on in the plenary on 31 march 2015.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report as it is incomplete as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the exemption of the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the second report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the 2013 discharge of the eniac joint undertaking as this report is incomplete. the data and information presented in respect of the economic volumes do not justify the exemption.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from the vote on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, on the grounds that it is not complete and well founded.
in writing. ‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ not all actions required for the closure of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council have been completed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the proposal from the committee on the general budget, as the council has not yet submitted to parliament the documents requested, thus jeopardising the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency. for this reason, all the actions required to close the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council, have not been completed.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the above-mentioned second report by mr czarnecki, a8-0269/2015, which does not grant the european council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, because mr czarnecki's report is complete and well-founded and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26 october 2015.
in writing. ‒ not all actions required for the closure of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the ebola crisis should be a lesson for the whole of europe to promote investment in health in third countries and to help third countries such as sierra leone, liberia and guinea to strengthen their economies and themselves to promote development in their countries. although ebola may be missing from the headlines now, all stakeholders need to take responsibility for the post-ebola era.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted against this report because most of the adjustments and regulations and policies in general that have been implemented in the past by the european union have resulted in contributing to inefficient health systems as well as to the mismanagement of financial resources, since they have resulted in unreliable ngos, resulting in the waste of resources which, if properly and properly allocated, would have led to tangible results in the fight against diseases such as ebola. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. what is needed to properly tackle diseases like ebola is better coordination and strengthening of the health systems of the member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am opposed to this report because most of the adjustments and regulations and policies in general that have been implemented in the past by the european union have resulted in contributing to inefficient health systems as well as to the mismanagement of financial resources, since they have resulted in unreliable ngos, resulting in the waste of resources which, if properly and properly allocated, would have led to tangible results in the fight against diseases such as ebola. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. what is needed to properly tackle diseases like ebola is better coordination and strengthening of the health systems of the member states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on the ebola crisis: lessons learned over time and ways to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 26/10/2015, and because since 2014, sierra leone, guinea and liberia have been affected by the ebola virus, however, these countries are not just experiencing the ebola crisis but a more systemic crisis, with 80% of the population living in extreme poverty. of course, the european union's response to contain ebola was not as immediate and highly effective as doctors without borders and the red cross, which proved to be better equipped to help the people of africa. it is necessary to make better use of the capacities of these humanitarian organisations on the part of the eu and also to strengthen medical research to produce drugs and vaccines for ebola. moreover, it is necessary to write off the debt of the african countries affected by the virus so that they can invest more in their health systems, which have been literally destroyed by the imf and the international usurious lenders.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the most of the adjustments and regulations and more generally policies that have been implemented in the past by the european union have resulted in contributing to inefficient health systems as well as to mismanagement of financial resources, as they have resulted in unreliable ngos, resulting in the waste of resources that if properly and properly allocated would have led to tangible results in the fight against diseases such as ebola. what is needed to properly tackle diseases like ebola is better coordination and strengthening of the health systems of the member states.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the deliberate criminal behaviour of any company should not be tolerated, because it undermines the quality of european products and threatens the health of european citizens. in any case, a central control mechanism should be set up throughout the eu so that each state does not protect its own illegal industries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution as a whole on the new measures in the motor vehicle sector and we agree with the imposition of sanctions and fines on vw. the fraud of this company, with its executives responsible, has exposed the weakness of the control procedures applied by the european authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not affected by the new rules. the new proposal on real driving emissions from euro 6 vehicles must also be finalised without delay. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the motion for a resolution as a whole on the new measures in the motor vehicle sector and i am in favour of the imposition of sanctions and fines on vw. the fraud of this company, with its executives responsible, has exposed the weakness of the control procedures applied by the european authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european car industry is not affected by the new regulations, and that the commission is not obliged to take any further action. the new proposal on real driving emissions from euro 6 vehicles must also be finalised without delay. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector because it is complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the new measures in the motor vehicle sector are in the right direction. we also agree with the imposition of sanctions and fines on vw. the fraud of this company, with its executives responsible, has exposed the weakness of the control procedures applied by the european authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not affected by the new rules. the new proposal on real driving emissions from euro 6 vehicles must also be finalised without delay. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000 is a very good one. the first is the de-escalation of outstanding payments; the commission has recently informed us that the outstanding payments in september amounted to eur 8.4 billion, and that there are claims for eur 15 billion in total. so there is a gap. the second challenge we face is to monitor the absorptivity and the return on jobs and growth of the money invested by european taxpayers. i think it is a good thing that we have appointed a special rapporteur for greece, but i think that greece should not be the exception, but monitoring the implementation of the community framework should become the rule for the european parliament. the third concerns the handling of the refugee crisis. the fact that countries such as greece can use funds from the structural funds and cohesion to deal with the crisis and the open window left by president junker for the exclusion of these expenditures from the stability pact is particularly positive.
the commission mr president, looking at the 2016 budget of the european union, i have the impression that we are being blind. behind the beautifully written headlines lies a completely different world. how is it possible that 15.5 million young people aged 15 to 24 benefit from the budget but unemployment among those under 25 is 21%? the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound budgetary discipline. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action on the basis of the common agricultural policy. it is not possible to budget eur 1.9 billion for asylum and immigration when so far some 710,000 immigrants have entered the union. so for 2016, you budget about 2700 euros per migrant, while in my country over 44% of the population had an income in 2013 below the fixed poverty line. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is a big lie.
the commission mr president, the same spectators again. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. when did you say that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but with these crumbs, can the european union meet the great challenges? is it possible to provide only eur 500 million to compensate all european union farmers for the damage they have suffered from the russian embargo? the damage suffered by greek farmers alone is not enough to cover this amount. with these small sums, is it possible to meet the employment challenge? we need investment in creating jobs for our own young people, at a time when there is huge unemployment, at a time when we need funds for refugees too.
the commission madam president, the european union must take serious initiatives to consolidate peace in the middle east. the civil war in syria and the conflict in iraq have created the huge influx of refugees to europe. but there will be no viable solution in the middle east without a solution to the palestinian problem in accordance with un resolutions. because that is the only way that israelis and palestinians can live together in peace. but the european union has not responded to these contemporary challenges. first, the funding amounts included in the 2015 budget of the european union are not sufficient to meet the needs of the local population and in particular to address the humanitarian crisis in gaza. the european funds are also lacking to stimulate development in the region, to increase investment, to create jobs, to combat poverty, which is fertilizer for the support of the jihadists. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. because the tension and violence only strengthens the jihadists and daesh.
the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody in the occupied territories, and for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the future of the palestinian state, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the future of the palestinian state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the prospect of an end to the israeli occupation - because that is the problem - of a sovereign and viable palestinian state on the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, the dismantling of settlements, the return of refugees, the release of political prisoners, will be justified by the struggle of the palestinian people in their homeland, but also by the international solidarity of the peoples. the communist party of greece calls for and takes the lead in this solidarity.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mrs mogherini, what is different or new about the debate today? has israel stopped the human cleansing, the settlements, the illegal imprisonment, the apartheid, the occupation in gaza? no, of course not. it's the opposite. the situation in the middle east is daily confirming in the most tragic way the utter failure and impasse of your policy for peace in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, it is an insult to the thousands of dead to continue to discuss this content without doing anything. at least enforce the clauses of the agreements and the decisions you have already made. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and it is asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further aggravated by the israeli military intervention. perhaps then any discussion will make sense, otherwise the terrorist state in the region will continue its murderous policy and will despise you.
the commission mr president, south sudan, despite its abundant resources, has a population living below the poverty line. at the same time, since 2013 it has been in a civil war between the nuer and dinka tribes. in addition, according to the un, in south sudan most of the population is at risk of famine; she's currently malnourished. in addition, 2.2 million people have been displaced within and outside the country and have fallen, in large numbers, victim to south sudanese soldiers. the european union must help to build the new south sudan, at a time when the un is calling for humanitarian aid in the region. at the same time, it should support the work of humanitarian organisations by providing funding to provide food and healthcare to the population. the peace agreement signed in addis ababa in may 2014 for a permanent ceasefire must be implemented.
i would like to say, mr president, that the three reports give us the opportunity to have a meaningful debate on cohesion policy. my political group and i have worked hard on constructive proposals. some of the reports we will vote for, some of them we will not vote against, but it is an opportunity to look at the substance, and the substance is that over the years, inequalities have increased, unemployment has increased, poverty has increased, investment has decreased, regional inequalities have increased, social exclusion has increased. the report by the commission services also shows that cohesion policy has proved inadequate. it needs strengthening, not weakening, and the question is: does the commission and its proposals strengthen cohesion policy? the objectives you have set are not being achieved, either in research or in development or in keeping children from poor families in school, and this absurd article 23 of macroeconomic selectivity, which parliament rejected when it was discussed in the previous term, imposes inequalities at the expense of the countries which are most in need of cohesion policies. i therefore expect you to tell us in your reply what you will do to strengthen cohesion policy in favour of the weakest regions and social groups.
the commission madam president, cohesion policy is the european union's main investment policy for growth and the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. it also envisages inclusive development and the reduction of disparities between the regions of europe; big and pompous words, which those who speak them neither want nor know how to put into practice, nor can they. a typical example of this aerology is greece. we destroy a country's economy, we give it a loan on usurious terms, we give that loan in installments and we have the illusion that there will be growth. we are saying that cohesion policy will create jobs and reduce unemployment. but how can this be done when thousands of unemployed people, especially in greece, are joined by thousands of unemployed illegal immigrants arriving in europe? we are saying that we will create specialised jobs, mr juncker is worried about how talented young people from third countries will find work and he is indifferent to the... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission madam president, after thanking the rapporteur, mr jakovčić, i would like to point out that the adriatic-ionian macro-region is an achievement of the peoples of the region and the local authorities. it brings together regions of eight countries where unemployment and over-indebtedness are high, regions which are undergoing a violent fiscal adjustment, and this applies particularly to the greek ionian. what might the answer be? but of course growth, growth with job creation, and in particular blue growth, which focuses on marine fisheries, aquaculture, blue technologies, maritime governance. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the community's fisheries policy. in july i visited zakynthos and had the opportunity to speak to the ionian regional council about the new opportunities for blue development and the adriatic-ionian macro-region. i shall be a help to that end.
the commission madam president, the creation of the so-called macro-regions of the european union, such as the adriatic-ionian, is aimed at creating a privileged arena of profit for monopolies in the midst of acute competition between the bourgeois classes of the countries of the region. the conditions are more favourable for the groups to penetrate more deeply into new sectors with potential for growth, such as the blue economy, energy networks and connected transport. the conditions for these projects are full surrender to the large capital of greek ports, railways and other vital infrastructure promoted by the greek government. all this with funds from the so-called cohesion policy of the european union, for which he was appointed an observer by the european parliament in order to monitor whether those in greece are being directed, as he says, correctly, that is to say, to business groups, at the same time as the workers' and popular rights that have been left standing to increase the profits of business groups are being trampled. but the people can disrupt their plans by choosing to confront the european union, its monopolies and its power, and to become the owners of the wealth it produces.
the commission madam president, i propose five simple ideas that will help to increase absorbency, especially now that we are dealing with red tape. firstly, the convergence of procedures across cohesion policy should be speeded up, so that we have a single management framework and thereby avoid confusion for the beneficiaries and the managing authorities. secondly, to avoid multiple checks, which have a doubtful effect in combating fraud, and at the same time to deal with methodical fraud in a direct and exemplary manner. we must have zero tolerance for corruption, we must use all means to crack down on corruption at all levels of the european union. immediately implement e-cohesion, which will also help to reduce the administrative burden and allow for the electronic exchange of data between beneficiaries and managing authorities. finally, we should consider establishing a register of beneficiaries immediately and, in the long term, a register of contractors, in order to reduce the bureaucracy involved in submitting programmes to the european union and monitoring the projects financed. in this way we will be able to facilitate absorption but above all we will be able to facilitate the achievement of the objective, which is nothing other than growth and jobs.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to state at the outset that i categorically reject any link between cohesion policy and economic governance and i am opposed to macroeconomic selectivity. i am sending out a warning about its negative effects, especially in the context of a severe economic crisis. its implementation violates the fundamental principles of the european union for the development and prosperity of citizens, it undermines the core of cohesion policy which promises the redistribution of wealth and solidarity, it is an obstacle to equal treatment between states, it undermines the equal implementation of cohesion policy, it is an obstacle to heresy and multi-level governance, it brings about double and unfair sanctioning in the context of fiscal consolidation and finally it strengthens the toolbox of the tough memorandum measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it weakens the development effort and turns cohesion policy into a guinea pig in complete submission to an all-powerful neoliberal coercion. i urge you at least now to immediately overturn its implementation.
madam president, i have listened carefully to the whole debate, and i agree with the proposal put forward by the rapporteurs. there are a number of positive aspects to the proposal, such as electronic voting. in general, however, i would like to warn against the trend towards strengthening the european dimension of elections as such. these elections should continue to be held at the national, if you will, state level, for one simple reason. if we abolish individual elections in individual nation states, then we break the link between the politician, the mp and his voters. this is very important for legitimacy. the voter should know his or her member, see what he or she is doing in the european parliament, understand what he or she is saying and know who he or she is talking about. the moment we break this principle and create pan-european constituencies, then i believe that legitimacy will be significantly reduced, voters will not know their mep and participation in the european elections will decrease.
the commission the report on the revision of the electoral procedure, madam president, is an attempt to construct the famous european town by the window. amendment no 1 therefore stipulates that the members of the european parliament are elected as representatives of the citizens of the union, and not as representatives of the peoples of the member states of the union. but the peoples of europe cannot be abolished by law, and that is something everyone must understand. the new electoral law also imposes a 3% threshold for the distribution of seats, with the aim of excluding from the next composition of the european parliament various movements and troublesome voices against german europe. the new electoral law also strengthens european party democracy at the expense of movements and citizens. at the same time, the peoples are being undermined as a source of democratic legitimacy, while the puzzle of the european melting pot is completed by paragraph 21 of the report, which calls into question the official languages of the member states of the union and calls for the representation of minority languages in european elections.
gue/ngl), in writing. the report of the european parliament's committee on constitutional affairs on the revision of the legislation for the election of meps proposes a number of amendments to the electoral act of 1976. the most important of these amendments is the introduction of a mandatory threshold of between 3% and 5% for the allocation of seats to at least some of the member states. this proposal is problematic from the point of view of the democratic principle enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. in particular, when this 'threshold' exceeds 3% and reaches 5%, there is an excessive restriction of pluralism which is not necessary to ensure the functioning of the european parliament. the introduction of electronic voting without adequate explanations and guarantees also raises questions about the security of voting. i would remind you of the extremely negative experience of the 2000 us presidential election, when the outcome was judged by the failure of a few hundred voters in the state of florida to meet the demands of the process, which were complex for them. the report must therefore be reformed, otherwise it cannot be accepted.
the commission madam president, a basic principle of european cooperation is respect for the law. the european community was thus built first as a community of law. a community in which the interpretation and enforcement of its law was entrusted to its court of justice, which by its decisions kept the european project alive and opened new paths for the european process. i and other professors of the institutions of the european union, when teaching our students at universities, have had the opportunity to draw attention to the role of the court of justice in protecting the rights of citizens. i support the proposal to strengthen the general court by increasing the number of judges to 28, one judge per member state, in order to strengthen the legitimacy of the court before the peoples of the union, to ensure that all the legal systems of the member states are equally represented and to ensure that justice is delivered effectively and swiftly.
the commission mr president, first of all, on the occasion of today's historic national anniversary of 28 october 1940, i would like to wish all greeks in greece and throughout the world a very happy birthday. then the greeks said no to the foreign invader. but then a great politician said no and the greek people followed. today the people say no, but the politicians sell out, take it as a yes and sign new memoranda denouncing the greek people to the economic invaders. as regards the subject of the debate, we have been witnessing for some months now an attempt by the commission to literally and in a very subtle way liberalize the breeding and cultivation of genetically modified organisms in the union. it is indifferent to the effects on the environment and the health of european citizens. it also ignores their view, which is consistently opposed to gm foods. and finally, it even ignores the right of states to protect their citizens and to ban potentially harmful foods. i would therefore ask myself: what interests does the commission serve by acting in this way? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. i would very much like to see all this simply due to incompetence or shallowness, but unfortunately i very much doubt it. the number of representatives of agricultural companies resident in brussels is not small. the position of our movement is to ban all genetically modified or cloned organisms. the future and health of our children is more important than any other financial or non-financial interest. i therefore entirely agree with the rejection of the commission's proposal.
the commission i would like to say that i am in favour of the commission's proposal and i agree with the comments made by mr josé bové, who raised a great many issues which concern not only consumer health but also environmental protection and the future of agriculture itself. the european consumers have expressed their total opposition to genetically modified food and organisms. the commission's proposal is to renationalize the common agricultural policy, and this is leading us down a very difficult path. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs themselves. the commission is in effect refusing to take a firm stance on gmos and is throwing the ball at the member states, and it is doing so in view of ttip, which, if implemented, will pose a serious risk to consumer health, since it allows the free movement of gmos.
the commission i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of controls on genetically modified organisms in the community. i therefore support a total ban on genetically modified food, cloned animals, genetically modified feed and proteins from genetically modified sources. i therefore support labelling everywhere so that consumers are aware of what they are eating. these principles also apply to novel foods, which cannot be the back door for mutants to enter our lives. the precautionary principle should be strictly applied to both novel foods and nanomaterials and to nanoparticles and insects. we must also oppose ttip, because it opens the way to mutants, as the united states has not signed the major international conventions banning mutants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is not guaranteed by this regulation.
the commission madam president, air pollution is a major problem with health, environmental, social and economic dimensions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution of the air by means of the use of diesel engines. the european union and the member states must take action against diesel engines after the volkswagen scandal, as the majority of investigations link pollution from diesel engines to premature deaths. so after the 'dieselgate', which was of course uncovered by the united states in its competitive attempt to curb germany's economic and political influence, the landscape in the european union is completely different and calls for decisive action on nitrogen oxide emission controls. it is therefore clear that the european diesel engine and vehicle industry must be put under the microscope of the commission and the member states, because what is important is public health, environmental protection and not the super profits of volkswagen, .... (the president interrupts)
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the draft budget for 2016 shifts the european union's focus to supporting agencies with migration-related tasks with a total of eur 26 million, with the european asylum support office (easo) receiving the largest increase of eur 12 million over the draft budget amount, the tame fund, rather than towards its own citizens and their needs. there are member states of the union that are suffering from the crisis, and yet they are the first countries to be designated as receiving countries and are obliged under eu rules to take care of them throughout their stay. countries like greece are unable to take care of their own citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the draft budget for 2016 shifts the european union's focus to supporting agencies with migration-related tasks with a total of eur 26 million, with the european asylum support office (easo) receiving the largest increase of eur 12 million over the draft budget amount, the tame fund, rather than towards its own citizens and their needs. there are member states of the union that are suffering from the crisis, and yet they are the first countries to be designated as receiving countries and are obliged under eu rules to take care of them throughout their stay. countries like greece are unable to take care of their own citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the draft budget for 2016 shifts the european union's focus to supporting agencies with migration-related tasks with a total of eur 26 million, with the european asylum support office (easo) receiving the largest increase, eur 12 million over the draft budget amount, the tame fund, rather than towards its own citizens and their needs. there are member states of the union that are suffering from the crisis, and yet they are the first countries to be designated as receiving countries and are obliged under eu rules to take care of them throughout their stay. countries like greece are unable to take care of their own citizens. for the above reasons, i am voting against the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 in all its parts.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 27/10/2015 and because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the draft budget for 2016 shifts the european union's focus to supporting agencies with migration-related tasks with a total of eur 26 million, with the european asylum support office (easo) receiving the largest increase, eur 12 million over the draft budget amount, the tame fund, rather than towards its own citizens and their needs. there are member states of the union that are suffering from the crisis, and yet they are the first countries to be designated as receiving countries and are obliged under eu rules to take care of them throughout their stay. countries like greece are unable to take care of their own citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament today delivered its opinion on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union. the council's proposal includes doubling the number of judges in the general court and abolishing the civil service tribunal. but the real problem is not the number of judges but the fundamental change in the way they are elected. the election of judges to the european court of human rights provides an example of this. the submission of three candidates by each member state shall be followed by an evaluation vote by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. the two-stage procedure (first the national proposal and then the vote of the representatives of the states), combined with the non-reelection of judges, provides greater guarantees of transparency and impartiality in the selection of judges. what the european union therefore needs is a fundamental change in the way it elects its judges, which goes far beyond increasing or reducing their number and emphasizes the dignity, transparency and balanced choice of men and women in the positions of european judicial officers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the as the explanatory memorandum shows, the real problem is not the lack of judges and prosecutors in the general court but the inability of the council itself to appoint a sufficient number of judicial officials, because each member state wants to appoint its own judge. the judges and prosecutors are not commissioners to be appointed on political terms by each member state. the proposal to double the number of judges in the dg and the proposal to abolish the icty must therefore be rejected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for these reasons, we are voting against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the as the explanatory memorandum shows, the real problem is not the lack of judges and prosecutors in the general court but the inability of the council itself to appoint a sufficient number of judicial officials, because each member state wants to appoint its own judge. the judges and prosecutors are not commissioners to be appointed on political terms by each member state. the proposal to double the number of judges in the dg and the proposal to abolish the icty must therefore be rejected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for the above reasons, i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, because it is complete and well-founded and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 27/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the as the explanatory memorandum shows, the real problem is not the lack of judges and prosecutors in the general court but the inability of the council itself to appoint a sufficient number of judicial officials, because each member state wants to appoint its own judge. the judges and prosecutors are not commissioners to be appointed on political terms by each member state. the proposal to double the number of judges in the dg and the proposal to abolish the icty must therefore be rejected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report, as the protection of marine fauna requires the application of european provisions, particularly for the collection of red coral by the necessary means and in certain areas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this recommendation with the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions relating to fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement, because the protection of marine fauna requires the application of european provisions, in particular for the collection of red coral by the necessary means and in certain areas.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions relating to fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm agreement (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the protection of marine fauna requires the application of european provisions, particularly for the collection of red coral by the necessary means and in certain areas.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the use of genetically modified food and feed is a rather sensitive issue, which concerns the health of european citizens. we are talking about food and feed for which we do not know the long-term effects that they may have on the environment and our bodies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, however, the proposal before us today not only fails to achieve this, but on the contrary creates greater ambiguity and legal uncertainty, particularly for countries such as greece, which have traditionally opposed the use of genetically modified organisms. you have presented us with a proposal which: •is not accompanied by exposure to impact •does not protect countries that want to ban genetically modified food and feed from their territory •is ineffective as it allows member states to restrict the use but not the import and trade of these organisms. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one. the protection of the health of european citizens is a non-negotiable value for our group.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted in favour of this amendment because it is a proposal to reject the commission's proposal on the use of genetically modified food and feed. we are opposed to directive 2001/18/ec on gmos for cultivation and categorically against the self-exclusion clause. the proposal for a regulation cannot be implemented as there are no longer any border controls in the agricultural sector. we support the rejection because, even if there are restrictions and some bans on the use of gm food and feed, they will seriously jeopardise livestock production and will have a negative impact on eu agriculture and the functioning of the internal market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against this amendment because it is a proposal to reject the commission's proposal on the use of genetically modified food and feed. i am opposed to directive 2001/18/ec on gmos for cultivation and categorically against the self-exclusion clause. the proposal for a regulation cannot be implemented as there are no longer any border controls in the agricultural sector. i support the rejection because even if there are restrictions and some bans on the use of gm food and feed, they will seriously jeopardise livestock production and will have a negative impact on eu agriculture and the functioning of the internal market.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, because it is comprehensive and well-documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee voted in favour of rejecting the european commission's proposal for a regulation on genetically modified organisms, because the proposed regulation effectively excludes the right of member states to ban the use of gmos on their territory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment and human health from the effects of gmos. the free movement of capital guaranteed by the eu treaties allows the import and trade of gmos in all eu member states. the rejection of the commission proposal should not reassure the public, because it is certain that the eu institutions will come back with new measures to promote gmos, as the interests of the monopolies in the sector require, especially in view of the eu-us negotiations for the conclusion of the ttip. the jrc calls for a complete ban on the import, marketing and any use (including agricultural) of gmos, which cannot be ensured under the monopoly regime. it assumes the people in power and owner of the concentrated means of production and the land, so that they are able to detach from the eu and with central nationwide planning and worker-people's control to create agricultural production cooperatives, to ensure food sufficiency, cheap, healthy and safe food for the people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of gmos are respected. the proposal for a regulation cannot be implemented as there are no longer any border controls in the agricultural sector. even if there are restrictions and some bans on the use of gm food and feed, they will seriously jeopardise livestock production and have a negative impact on eu agriculture and the functioning of the internal market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee voted in favour of rejecting the european commission's proposal for a regulation on genetically modified organisms, because the proposed regulation effectively excludes the right of member states to ban the use of gmos on their territory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment and human health from the effects of gmos. the free movement of capital guaranteed by the eu treaties allows the import and trade of gmos in all eu member states. the rejection of the commission proposal should not reassure the public, because it is certain that the eu institutions will come back with new measures to promote gmos, as the interests of the monopolies in the sector require, especially in view of the eu-us negotiations for the conclusion of the ttip. the jrc calls for a complete ban on the import, marketing and any use (including agricultural) of gmos, which cannot be ensured under the monopoly regime. it assumes the people in power and owner of the centralized means of production and the land, so that they are able to detach from the eu and with central nationwide planning and workers' and people's control to create agricultural production cooperatives, to ensure food sufficiency, cheap, healthy and safe food for the people.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i was absent from the final vote because many of the points which parliament wanted to be included in the legislation on 'new foods' were not accepted by the council. we would like to see more stringent legislation on cloned animals, because we want the consumer to know whether what he is eating is from a cloned animal or the offspring of a cloned animal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, recognizing that the present legislation offers even less protection to consumers, we decided to abstain from the final vote.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. the reason is that no one can give a complete and definite guarantee as to the suitability and safety of this new food and the effects it will certainly have on the health of consumers. our constant position is to produce and consume exclusively food whose primary molecular structure is not modified or altered in any way, as for example in cloned animals.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. the reason is that no one can give a complete and definite guarantee as to the suitability and safety of this new food and the effects it will certainly have on the health of consumers. i am firmly of the opinion that the production and consumption of food products whose primary molecular structure is not modified or altered in any way, such as in the case of cloned animals, is the only way to achieve this.
in writing. ‒ novel food is a food for human consumption considered innovative or a food produced using new technologies and production processes, including cloning. the first problem is that the labelling of novel food will be done through implementing acts. secondly, the definition of novel food is still unclear. consumers should be enabled to make informed choices regarding the use of novel foods and not be misled about their purchases. i voted against this report because there are still many changes to implement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/10/2015.
in writing. the novel food regulation is 'cut and sewn' to the requirements of business groups already active in the relevant sector or intending to expand into it, seeing profitable prospects. the creation of a purely centralised eu mechanism will prevent member states and their competent authorities from controlling and prohibiting the marketing and use of novel foods on their territory. at the same time, the regulation excludes food derived from cloned animals and their offspring from its scope, and excludes the prohibition or even stricter scientific controls of food derived from nanomaterials and nanotechnologies, leaving consumers' health exposed to risks. once again the eu institutions do not hesitate to leave the health and lives of workers at the mercy of monopoly profits and interests, proving the eu's hostility to the people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ no one can give a complete and unequivocal guarantee of the suitability and safety of this novel food and of the effects it will certainly have on the health of consumers. our constant position is to produce and consume exclusively food whose primary molecular structure is not modified or altered in any way.
in writing. the novel food regulation is tailored to the requirements of business groups already active in the sector or intending to expand into it, seeing profitable prospects. the creation of a purely centralised eu mechanism will prevent member states and their competent authorities from controlling and prohibiting the marketing and use of novel foods on their territory. at the same time, the regulation excludes food derived from cloned animals and their offspring from its scope, and excludes the prohibition or even stricter scientific controls of food derived from nanomaterials and nanotechnologies, leaving consumers' health exposed to risks. once again the eu institutions do not hesitate to leave the health and lives of workers at the mercy of monopoly profits and interests, proving the eu's hostility to the people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has proposed to repeal the old directive and replace it with a new and improved one. it provides for a new legislative act to improve air quality by setting stricter standards. it is imperative to empower the competent authorities to ensure compliance with all legislative provisions relating to the 2030 ceilings. in particular, the establishment of low emission zones and a road toll system aimed at reducing the pollutant emissions of diesel vehicles, particularly in urban areas. for all these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has proposed to repeal the old directive and replace it with a new and improved one. it provides for a new legislative act to improve air quality by setting stricter standards. it is imperative to empower the competent authorities to ensure compliance with all legislative provisions relating to the 2030 thresholds; in particular, the establishment of low emission zones and a road toll system aimed at reducing emissions from diesel vehicles, particularly in urban areas. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the according to reliable data, air pollution is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths in the eu each year. at the same time, the financial burden on health systems is therefore in the hundreds of billions. the new directive sets realistic but ambitious national targets for reducing certain pollutants which have a significant impact on human health. in this context, the european parliament proposes reasonable exemptions for polluting substances in the livestock sector, ensuring that the burden of reduction is mainly borne by waste and waste management, but also by the energy sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
in writing. ‒ it is imperative that the competent authorities are empowered to ensure compliance with all legislative provisions relating to the 2030 thresholds. in particular, the establishment of low emission zones and a road toll system aimed at reducing the pollutant emissions of diesel vehicles, particularly in urban areas.
in writing. ‒ this report is about creating an instrument of international participatory democracy that allows citizens to participate directly in the eu institutions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report is about creating an instrument of international participatory democracy that allows citizens to participate directly in the eu institutions, which is why i am voting in favour of the european citizens' initiative.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the european citizens' initiative, partly because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the practical application of the so-called 'citizens' initiative' fully confirms the criticism made by the kke in a timely and well-founded manner, that it is an anti-people firework display of the eu's appearance and manipulation of consciences, when bourgeois and opportunist parties and media presented it as a form of alleged 'participatory democracy' in the eu. the experience of only two such initiatives so far has shown that they are directly dependent on the approval and permission of the european commission, necessarily operate within the anti-people framework defined by the reactionary eu treaties and ultimately end up in the wastebasket if they do not serve the anti-people objectives of the eu and bourgeois governments. the kke's complaints that the 'citizens' initiative' will also serve as a vehicle to present anti-people ambitions of the monopolies as a supposed 'people's demand' were confirmed by the airline 'ryanair', known for its savage exploitation of its workers, which launched its own 'citizens' initiative' with the slogan 'keep european skies open', calling on the eu institutions to ban the right to strike for working air traffic controllers! that is why the workers must condemn these reactionary european union instruments, and intensify their struggle against the eu, against all its anti-people structures and the monopolies it serves.
in writing. ‒ this report is about creating an instrument of international participatory democracy that allows citizens to participate directly in the eu institutions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the practical application of the so-called 'citizens' initiative' fully confirms the criticism made by the kke in a timely and well-founded manner, that it is an anti-people firework display of the eu's appearance and manipulation of consciences, when bourgeois and opportunist parties and media presented it as a form of alleged 'participatory democracy' in the eu. the experience of the two such initiatives that have been carried out so far has shown that they are directly dependent on the approval and permission of the european commission, they are necessarily operating within the anti-people framework defined by the reactionary eu treaties and they end up in the wastebasket if they do not serve the anti-people objectives of the eu and bourgeois governments. the kke's complaints that the 'citizens' initiative' will also serve as a vehicle to present anti-people ambitions of the monopolies as a supposed 'people's demand' were confirmed by the airline 'ryanair', known for its savage exploitation of its workers, which launched its own 'citizens' initiative' with the slogan 'keep european skies open', calling on the eu institutions to ban the right to strike for working air traffic controllers! that is why the workers must condemn these reactionary european union instruments, and intensify their struggle against the eu, against all its anti-people structures and the monopolies it serves.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to bridge the gap and strengthen cooperation between eu countries in the region and third countries. issues such as shortages of facilities, inadequate connection of electrical nodes and destruction of ecosystems by the human factor are just some of the issues that this report seeks to address.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. strategies based on wishful thinking and inducement are doomed to fail. the adriatic and ionian region needs to develop first and foremost by defining the eezs of the countries concerned and by identifying targeted, financed and feasible actions to upgrade and improve the economic activity and social life of citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, as it contains recommendations to resolve the migration issue in a way that favours the influx of other migrants.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region because it is comprehensive and well-documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 27/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the strategies based on wishful thinking and inducement are doomed to fail. the adriatic and ionian region needs to develop first and foremost by defining the eezs of the countries concerned and by identifying targeted, financed and feasible actions to upgrade and improve the economic activity and social life of citizens.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as i consider cohesion policy to be a key element in the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy. the report highlights the importance of multi-level governance, monitoring and evaluation of the strategy, information from ngos and the need to adapt the targets for the eu 2020 strategy to the reality and needs of each region.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the europe 2020 strategy and its link to cohesion policy have proven, both in the cohesion report and in the severe and uneven impact of the financial crisis on the member states, to have failed to meet the ambitious targets set. the fact is that the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 governance have lost the support of the member states over time. this, combined with the austerity policy and the severe socioeconomic shocks caused by the crisis, has led to a large proportion of eu citizens being eurosceptic. the review of cohesion policy has lost its momentum. the reform policies imposed through the structural reform support service providing technical assistance to member states and the country-specific recommendations (troika and technical stages in greece) are destroying any effort at sustainable development. the investment recovery effort and the investment gap recovery in the eu through the efsi are not clearly linked to the europe 2020 strategy and do not complement the existing esi funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's action to include the following areas:
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the europe 2020 strategy and its link to cohesion policy have been shown, both by the cohesion report and by the severe and uneven impact of the financial crisis on the member states, to have failed to meet the ambitious targets set. the fact is that the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 governance have lost the support of the member states over time. this, combined with the austerity policy and the severe socioeconomic shocks caused by the crisis, has led to a large proportion of eu citizens being eurosceptic. the review of cohesion policy has lost its momentum. the reform policies imposed through the structural reform support service providing technical assistance to member states and the country-specific recommendations (troika and technical levels in greece) are destroying any effort at sustainable development. the attempt to revive investment and to re-energize the investment gap in the eu through the efsi is not clearly linked to the europe 2020 strategy and does not complement the existing esi funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's action to include the following areas: for all these reasons, i am voting against the report on cohesion policy and the revision of the eu 2020 strategy.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the europe 2020 strategy and its link to cohesion policy have shown, both in the cohesion report and in the severe and uneven impact of the financial crisis on the member states, that they have failed to meet the ambitious targets they set. the fact is that the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 governance have lost the support of the member states over time. this, combined with the austerity policy and the severe socioeconomic shocks caused by the crisis, has led to a large proportion of eu citizens being eurosceptic. the review of cohesion policy has lost its momentum. the reform policies imposed through the structural reform support service providing technical assistance to member states and the country-specific recommendations (troika and technical levels in greece) are destroying any effort at sustainable development. the attempt to revive investment and to re-energize the investment gap in the eu through the efsi is not clearly linked to the europe 2020 strategy and does not complement the existing esi funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's action to include the following areas:
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the good economic governance and its link with the european structural and investment funds (esif) have contributed to the ineffectiveness of cohesion policy, in particular article 23 of the csf and the suspension of payments, which are punitive in nature, as they do not take into account the situation of states and regions experiencing socioeconomic difficulties due to the crisis. practice has shown that the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity do not apply to the esi funds, in particular to country-specific recommendations, which fail to achieve economic growth and sustainable growth and job creation, leading to measures (further austerity and cuts) that are contrary to the objectives of cohesion policy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the good economic governance and its link with the european structural and investment funds (esif) have contributed to the ineffectiveness of cohesion policy, in particular article 23 of the csf and the suspension of payments, which are punitive in nature, as they do not take into account the situation of states and regions facing socioeconomic difficulties due to the crisis. practice has shown that the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity does not apply to the esi funds, in particular to country-specific recommendations, which fail to achieve economic growth and sustainable growth and job creation, leading to measures (further austerity and cuts) that are contrary to the objectives of cohesion policy. i am therefore voting against the european structural funds, the investment funds and good economic governance.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european structural and investment funds and good economic governance: guidelines for the application of article 23 of the regulation laying down common provisions, because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the good economic governance and its link with the european structural and investment funds (esif) have contributed to the ineffectiveness of cohesion policy, in particular article 23 of the csf and the suspension of payments, which are punitive in nature, as they do not take into account the situation of states and regions facing socioeconomic difficulties due to the crisis. practice has shown that the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity does not apply to the esi funds, in particular to country-specific recommendations which fail to achieve economic growth and sustainable growth and job creation, leading to measures (further austerity and cuts) that are contrary to the objectives of cohesion policy.
the first item on the agenda is oral questions to the council and the commission on a package of measures for smart border management tabled by mr claude moraes on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000106/2015 - b8-0766/2015) (o-000107/2015 - b8-0767/2015) (2015/2868 ((rsp)).
the commission mr president, commissioner, the smart border strategy, when it started, had a different social and geopolitical environment. now, with the mass influx of refugees, the situation has, i would say, become complicated. the first thing we must make clear is that the responsibility for guarding the borders lies solely with the member states, and this must be made clear because various parties - including mrs merkel - are trying to create a situation of co-management of the greek borders in the aegean. let's get this straight. the second is that, indeed, in this new system that you are attempting, the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of april 2014 should be fully applicable. the principle of proportionality must be applied and an environment must be created in which fundamental rights are guaranteed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not distorted.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the debate on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european union agency for law enforcement training (ealet) and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha, by kinga gál, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (com (2014) 0465 - c8-0110/2014 - 2014/0217 (cod)) (a8-0048/2015)
the commission mr president, the design of the response to serious crime, terrorism and crime affecting the interests of two or more states must be simple, applicable and produce tangible results. the cross-border dimension of crime and law enforcement respectively, as well as the pursuit of a clearer union added value, should not conflict with the internal security strategy at both union and member state level. clearly, enhanced cooperation between national police authorities is necessary and desirable, but it must be based on principles and regulations, especially when reflected in the organisational structure of european law enforcement institutions. finally, the opinion of parliament's committee on budgets on the merger of the european police college with europol should be discussed not only for reasons of saving resources but also for reasons of synergy between the college and the operational police.
the commission mr president, cepol, the european police college, is responsible for training in law enforcement and should therefore operate in a transparent manner and under the democratic control of the european parliament. cepol is called upon to provide training to police forces, using appropriate tools, to enable them to carry out their duties in a professional and lawful manner. however, in the light of police action in various countries, we often see increased violence against citizens, especially in marches and demonstrations against austerity policies; violence that is disproportionate and that leads to violations of citizens' fundamental rights. therefore, the training to be conducted by cepol must include teaching and appropriate training in order to eliminate the frequent incidents of unlawful police violence. the european parliament and the commission are therefore invited to ensure that cepol contributes to the building of a genuine european law enforcement education based on respect for fundamental rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 29 october 2015.
the next item is the oral questions to the council and the commission on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens, tabled by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000114/2015 - b8-0769/2015) (o-000115/2015 - b8-0770/2015) (2015/2635(rsp))
the commission madam president, the mass, continuous and uncontrolled surveillance of european citizens is unfortunately still a reality today. the governments of the member states, and the european institutions in particular, are constantly monitoring us all. they are proving their hypocrisy and at the same time how false their mask of supposed humanity is, and how false their words are when they refer to the protection of the rights of citizens. leaked documents have revealed the long-standing practice of some european countries to systematically monitor both the conversations and communications of citizens and even political conversations, without a legal mandate from the judicial authorities. it has also been revealed subsequently that the judiciary has been reluctant to investigate the various complaints. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. the commission has also been informed that the greek authorities have been monitoring and then publishing without any authorization the conversations of the leaders of our movement, golden dawn. in any case, the european political establishment is once again revealed as a mere agent of its transatlantic partners. we, as greek nationalists and at the same time elected representatives of the greek people in the european parliament, call for an immediate end to any such illegal activity. in addition, in order to avoid any shadow being cast on the judicial authorities throughout the union, we call for the immediate and exemplary punishment of those responsible for these surveillance activities, as well as all those who have covered them up for so long.
the commission madam president, the electronic mass surveillance of citizens of the european union has been strongly condemned by the european parliament in a resolution in march 2014. but what were the practical results of this resolution? the deep state in the various member countries of the union is trying to legitimize the practices of mass surveillance of citizens in the name of security. but the pursuit of the safety of citizens must not lead to the violation of fundamental rights. it must not lead to the infringement of the privacy and personal data of union citizens. it must not lead to the surveillance of citizens and politicians by the german secret services. at the same time, the judgment of the court of justice in the safe harbour case has shown that there is no guarantee of protection of data transferred to the usa. how will european citizens be compensated? we need legislation that imposes strict penalties on those who engage in illegal surveillance and mechanisms to prosecute and seek compensation for personal injury and moral injury.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr dombrovskis, i am very much afraid that the optimism and the exaggeration that characterized your speech and that of mr schmit are far removed from the reality, which shows rising unemployment, rising poverty, rising social inequalities, declining investment and an anaemic and fragile recovery of the economy, and this is due to the failure of a doctrinally unilateral austerity, which would supposedly bring investment and bring disinvestment, and to a skewed deficit architecture of the eurozone, which you refuse to show to correct these deficits. i ask you: what is the role of the eurogroup? the eurogroup is the boss of the eurozone, the commission is the extra and the european parliament is on the sidelines. mr dombrovskis, on 16 september you were with mr moscovici in the economic committee of the european parliament and mr pierre moscovici said that he was a strong supporter of the community method and that he did not believe in the intergovernmental method, and on 21 october you presented proposals, ignoring the european parliament, on how the proposal of the five presidents should proceed. if we want the eurozone to move forward in the interests of the citizens, then we must abandon the intergovernmental method and make everyone and the eurogroup accountable to the european parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
gue/ngl), answer to a question with a blue card. we are grateful for the suggestion, you are not being original, you are repeating mr schaeuble's proposal, which the vast majority of greeks reject, the commission has rejected it, mrs merkel and the summit have rejected it. as for the british who applauded you, i recommend that if they want some sort of exit, they work for brexit in the 2017 referendum. we greeks want to change europe, not escape from it.
the commission the report we are discussing, mr president, shows that the european semester is a powerful anti-people instrument for enforcing the european union's strategy in favour of the monopolies, which is being brutally attacked at the expense of the people. in this context, the greek people are facing the barbaric attack of the third left-wing memorandum of the syriza-anel government. structural reforms, supervision and fiscal discipline are being promoted as part of the deepening of emu, calling for: flexible and transparent labour relations, facilitating mass redundancies; a dramatic reduction in wages to the level of minimum income; the maintenance of tax breaks for business groups, burdening the people with new burdens; the demolition of the social security system, making it more employer-friendly, by destroying pensions and the right to free health and welfare. if these objectives are not met, the budgetary committees will automatically reduce wages and social spending. this anti-people attack, to be countered, requires well-organized struggles to satisfy the needs of the people, a struggle against capital and its power.
the commission mr dombrovskis, a few days ago you visited athens to check on the implementation of the third memorandum, a memorandum which imposes a tax on the pockets and assets of impoverished greek citizens, which reduces wages and pensions, which dismantles the insurance and primary sectors, which taxes the farmers excessively, which leads the country into recession, increases unemployment, closes small and mediumsized enterprises and launches the sale of public property. at the same time, mr dombrovskis, you have raised great concern with your statements about a so-called bail-in if the banks are not recapitalised by the end of 2015, a recapitalisation which, as you have stated, can only be carried out after the first assessment has been completed, that is, after the imposition of the memorandum measures that will turn greece into a social graveyard. mr dombrovskis, the memoranda which have been applied to greece have failed and have given birth to armies of unemployed people. and all this despite the fact that greece, in the same period, received two hundred and forty billion euros in loans. so where did the money go, mr. dombrovskis?
ecr), in writing. the 2008 financial crisis and the subsequent austerity policies have led to unprecedented unemployment rates in europe, with the countries of the european south being the most affected. in particular, according to eurostat, greece is ranked first, with the highest longterm unemployment rate (25.6%), followed by spain with 22.5%, while germany has one of the lowest rates (4.7%). in absolute terms, the longterm unemployed number 12 million. to reduce longterm unemployment, the eu must abandon austerity policies. the eu's resources for reducing unemployment are also very small, only 18.8 billion euro. in addition, for the countries of the over-indebted european south, and in particular for greece, there will be no investment unless debt is settled. and that can be done by writing off the debt.
the commission mr president, europe 2020 reflects the priorities of european capital for an even more favourable environment for increasing its profitability and competitiveness by exploiting innovation; energy union, climate change, digital and banking market integration, further delivery of education and health to big capital. the anti-worker measures and memoranda promoted by the european union and governments are not a temporary derogation. it is a duration tool to satisfy capital's needs for profitability. asymmetry is like the sharp competitions inherent in the capitalist development path. the deepening of emu under the text of the five presidents means strengthening the mechanisms of the anti-people strategy of capital-european union by measures such as the budgetary council, strengthening the eurogroup, strengthening supervision and escalating the anti-working class offensive. the example of greece with the third left-wing syriza memorandum proves that the european union and capitalism can only get worse. the only way for the people to become the owners of the wealth they produce. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission mr president, despite the ambitious objectives of the eu 2020 strategy on employment, research and development and tackling social exclusion and poverty, the european union has so far moved away from these objectives rather than towards them. in particular, in the countries of southern europe, and particularly in greece, while the european union is talking about economic growth, it is imposing even stricter austerity measures on the greek people. at the same time, in greece the unemployment rate is at 25%, a sharp increase since 2012, while the youth unemployment rate is above 50%. we therefore see that merkel's austerity instead of growth has brought even higher unemployment rates in greece and has not promoted growth in the least in areas such as health, education and research, which are supposed to be targets of the eu 2020 strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget, and that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budgetary authority.
the commission mr president, the 2008 banking crisis and the housing and subprime bubble brought to light the need for transparency in securities financing transactions in order to balance the financial system and avoid future crises. transparency means detailed reports on the collateral available for the various securities; 'transparency' means an obligation for credit institutions to disclose to purchasers of securities all potential risks; transparency means control in the so-called shadow banking system, which is growing at breakneck speed and creating excessive capital leverage; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used for the purposes of the common agricultural policy. are they directed towards financing the productive economy or towards speculation? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. while in previous decades smes created thousands of jobs, they have started to shrink as a sector because of memoranda, fiscal adjustment and austerity, which reduced demand and consumption. moreover, in both greece and the rest of europe, access to bank credit for smes is deteriorating, and large divergences in bank lending between large and small enterprises are observed. the european union unfortunately does not have sufficient resources to finance smes, to promote and support their exports and to access credit through cooperative banks. finally, for greece, in order to revive small and mediumsized enterprises, our country must be rid of the legacy of the memoranda and the troika.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. summertime has been established for many, many years and has been considered a positive thing. but you can see that the studies show just the opposite, because there has been a public hearing in the european parliament. it has now been demonstrated that summertime has negative effects on health, transport and european industry, and does not help to reduce energy costs. so you have to see this serious issue, you have to deal with it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, in the age of technology, drones can be very useful in connection with search and rescue, environmental protection, agricultural and industrial production, journalism, commercial and recreational activities. the european commission should, however, take immediate steps to ensure that remotely piloted aircraft are used exclusively for the purpose of serving the people themselves. at the same time, the european commission should adopt measures, as drones are by definition a form of dual-use technology and therefore require the imposition of restrictive and strict rules in order to protect privacy and personal data. at the same time, these systems can be used, whether intentionally or not, to harm people and infrastructure. i would therefore draw the commission's attention to remotely piloted aircraft and ask for specific legislative action.
the commission the report is concerned with the new challenges and ideas for promoting tourism in europe, and it is designed to make the situation more attractive. europe, as the world's leading tourist destination with a market share of 52%, is a major social and economic activity in the european union. but things are not so rosy for countries of the south, such as greece. greece relies heavily on tourism revenue. but this summer tourist season has been a huge economic blow to the aegean islands. the impact of particularly high refugee and migrant flows is significant on the islands that are the main destinations of these flows, such as kos, lesvos, chios and samos. in co. alone, 120,000 cancellations by tour operators and 58,000 by individual customers correspond to a 400% increase in cancellations. this means loss of income and jobs, especially for our young people, which in greece is 60%. the european union's humanitarianism is good, but europeans are canceling their holidays on islands flooded by illegal immigrants because they are disturbing the peace and quiet they seek. how can we talk about competitiveness when the special vat reduction scheme for the most popular destinations is abolished in the greek islands and the absurd vat rate of 23% is imposed with the third most burdensome memorandum, when in the competitive market of turkey, which is about to join the union, it is 6%? is this the united europe of tourism development? if we do not change our tactics, this union as it is now will begin to fall apart. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
ni), answer to a question with a blue card. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. thousands of people have been rescued from the aegean. secondly, the countries which have helped greece financially have, i think, taken too much interest from greece, which has been economically enslaved by the memoranda, which have failed.
s & d) and the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'll focus on two of them: the first is the taxation of tourist services. the european parliament calls for a reduced vat rate because tourism businesses, the vast majority of which are small and mediumsized, are inextricably linked to local communities and thus help to promote local development and to maintain jobs. the second is to remind people that remote areas of europe such as the small islands have enormous problems in the transport and energy sectors. but we cannot have two-speed european residents. we are waiting for the commission's answers to this. i would also like to apologize for my compatriot, mr. fuddooli. the answer to the refugee problem is a small island of 700 inhabitants, which lives off tourism and has asked to host 100 syrian refugee families. so there is the great response of solidarity, there are the extreme xenophobic voices.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is at least suspicious that we as a parliament are asking the member states to recognise the importance of reducing vat rates on tourist services (paragraph 63 of the report), at the same time as the so-called institutions of the famous quartet are imposing on greece, by means of the memorandum, the increase in vat on the aegean islands. it is obvious that the reduced vat rate was neither free nor selective. it balanced the increased transport costs and the special conditions of geographical dispersion of the islands. the commission's reply is as follows: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's tourism sector is not undermined by the imposition of a new tax on the tourism sector. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this bilingualism is not due to a mistake and it is certainly not accidental. i look forward to the commission's replies.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and yet studies show that the new system imposed on tourist packages with the so-called 'all-inclusive' not only does not ultimately help tourism development but on the contrary destroys local small and mediumsized tourist enterprises, marginalizes local agricultural products and reduces employment. at the same time as the sale of the 14 regional greek airports to fraport, lufthansa, tui and their tour operators acquired monopoly power and turned greek tourism into their mascot. finally, the troika with the third memorandum imposed a 23% vat on the aegean islands, which reduced the competitiveness of tourism in the region. the commission should therefore tell us how it is that, on the one hand, it is calling for a reduction in vat in its report and, on the other, as a troika, it is excessive in raising vat on the aegean islands, thus destroying greek tourism.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we are discussing today ways of upgrading tourism in europe, but in reality there is no single european tourism market and no level playing field for the member states. the most characteristic example is greece, which since the summer of this year has been obliged by the european commission and the european central bank, as members of the troika of the country's lenders, to raise the value added tax on catering to 23% and on hotels to 13%. unlike the main competing mediterranean countries, italy, france and spain, vat in these two sectors, which are crucial for tourism, is only 10%. as if that were not enough, the troika forced greece to increase vat on the islands in violation of article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, abolishing the reduced rate, at a time when the islands are the country's most attractive tourist destinations. this hypocrisy must stop.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the tourism sector makes a significant contribution both to the economic development of the union as a whole and to the promotion of the economy and competitiveness of the member states. although europe remains the world's number one tourist destination, its tourism industry faces increasing competition as emerging, more economically developed countries attract tourists from around the world. in order to cope with this competition, i believe that the eu should highlight its comparative advantages, in particular the diversity of its landscapes and regions, its exceptional cultural wealth, while member states should promote policies that strengthen the tourism sector and, by extension, their economy, making the most of the new eu funding opportunities. however, in countries such as greece, where tourism is a heavy industry with a large economic impact on employment and social and cultural development, fiscal adjustment measures such as the increase in vat on certain islands are affecting the competitiveness of those regions, which are directly affected by the low-cost tourism developing in neighbouring third countries. i also believe that the eu should provide financial support for the sector in coastal areas, which are being hit hard by the refugee crisis.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the causes of air accidents are almost always unknown and nobody knows the causes of these air accidents. today, in the digital age and in the age of technology, it is unacceptable that only 30% of airlines provide flight tracking systems. this technology will help governments, air navigation service providers and airlines to increase the efficiency of air traffic management, while significantly increasing aviation safety. the commission should immediately adopt measures to ensure that the system under discussion is used worldwide, while ensuring that human rights are not violated and that the sovereign rights of states are respected.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european union agency for law enforcement training (eael) and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha (com (2014) 0465), for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eppo, as the only specialised body exclusively dedicated to law enforcement training, should be able to assist the european institutions in identifying the priorities to be addressed through training. moreover, for the era to be effective and effective, its limited resources (around eur 8.5 million) should be concentrated on a few thematic areas, without overlapping with the work done at member state level, and in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
s&d), in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it improves transparency, regulation and supervision in relation to securities financing transactions, which mainly concern securities lending and repurchase agreements between entities and activities outside the regular banking system.
in writing. ‒ increasing the transparency of securities financing markets is important to ensure a level playing field.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ increasing the transparency of securities financing markets is important to ensure a level playing field, which is why i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on reporting and transparency in relation to securities financing transactions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on reporting and transparency in relation to securities financing transactions because it is not complete and well documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/10/2015.
in writing. ‒ increasing the transparency of securities financing markets is important to ensure a level playing field.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the libe report concerns the protection of personal data, online privacy and the cooperation of member states in combating eavesdropping and mass surveillance of member states' authorities, companies and citizens. typical examples are the recent revelations about electronic surveillance and interception of french presidents' conversations by the us national security agency (nsa), the nsa's cooperation with the german intelligence service (bnd), the snowden revelations, etc. electronic surveillance and surveillance should be governed by legal, ethical and technological rules, in line with the principles and standards set out in the un treaty on civil and social rights. uncontrolled mass surveillance is an invasion of privacy and family life. in addition, all agreements concerning exchanges of information, based on surveillance and intelligence gathering for the purpose of combating terrorism, terrorist financing and common crime, exchanges of information for legal purposes, and exchanges of personal data with third countries should be covered by transparency, legality, necessity and proportionality. the protection of whistleblowers and informants against unlawful surveillance and criminal activities by intelligence services must be a key priority for any state governed by the rule of law.
in writing. i vote in favour of the libe report, which deals with the protection of personal data, the security of privacy on the internet and cooperation between member states in combating eavesdropping and the mass surveillance of member states' authorities, companies and citizens. typical examples are the recent revelations about the electronic surveillance and interception of french presidents' conversations by the us national security agency (nsa), the nsa's cooperation with the german intelligence service (bnd), the snowden revelations, etc. electronic surveillance and surveillance should be governed by legal, ethical and technological rules, in line with the principles and standards set out in the un treaty on civil and social rights. uncontrolled mass surveillance is an invasion of privacy and family life. in addition, all agreements concerning exchanges of information, based on surveillance and intelligence gathering for the purpose of combating terrorism, terrorist financing and common crime, exchanges of information for legal purposes, and exchanges of personal data with third countries should be covered by transparency, legality, necessity and proportionality. the protection of whistleblowers and informants against unlawful surveillance and criminal activities by intelligence services must be a key priority for any state governed by the rule of law.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/10/2015.
in writing. ‒ the at eu level and beyond, a vast network of surveillance systems and law enforcement agencies has been set up, with the schengen treaty and the multi-layered databases of sis i and ii, vis, the directive on the monitoring of telephone and electronic/internet communications, in cooperation with the respective monopolies that intertwine for their own interests. the eu's apparent interest and concern in developments in countries that strengthen the 'faculties' of workers is therefore hypocritical. the resolution conceals the fact that all kinds of surveillance, collection and processing of personal data, including biometric data, have been imposed, including on children, and above all on those who carry out political and trade union activities, especially communists, trade unionists of the working class movement and other activists. it seeks to present the eu as a model in the protection of personal data, which even makes recommendations to the us, given the exchange and interconnection of information, but also the fierce competition between them and all kinds of secret services of the member states, the euro-police, as well as the corresponding services of third countries. the protection of the democratic rights and freedoms of workers requires the overthrow of the capitalist system, which will also allow for the disengagement from the eu and the abolition of all these reactionary mechanisms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the libe report concerns the protection of personal data, online privacy and the cooperation of member states in combating eavesdropping and mass surveillance of member states' authorities, companies and citizens. typical examples are the recent revelations about electronic surveillance and interception of french presidents' conversations by the us national security agency (nsa), the nsa's cooperation with the german intelligence service (bnd), the snowden revelations, etc. electronic surveillance and surveillance should be governed by legal, ethical and technological rules, in line with the principles and standards set out in the un treaty on civil and social rights. uncontrolled mass surveillance is an invasion of privacy and family life. in addition, all agreements concerning exchanges of information, based on surveillance and intelligence gathering for the purpose of combating terrorism, terrorist financing and common crime, exchanges of information for legal purposes and the exchange of personal data with third countries should be covered by transparency, legality, necessity and proportionality. the protection of whistleblowers and informants against unlawful surveillance and criminal activities by intelligence services must be a key priority for any state governed by the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the the epp firmly supports the provision of a high level of protection for the personal data and privacy of european citizens and recognises that the legislation of the member states governing the activities of intelligence services must be in line with the standards of the european convention on human rights and all relevant union legislation. at the same time, it respects the judgments of the european court of justice, which set as the supreme rule when processing personal data the principle of proportionality and strict necessity of the purpose pursued. in this context, we support this report and we vote in favour of anything that serves the above purposes. however, we cannot and must not tolerate extreme populist views which believe that freedom can be promoted without security. provisions that interfere with the national laws of member states by clearly demanding the withdrawal of democratically adopted laws, provisions that prevent member states from sovereignly defining their national security and require the suspension of important ongoing eu agreements with third countries, on the pretext that they violate the security of personal data, are excessive and distort the substance of the resolution, which deals with mass surveillance.
in writing. ‒ the at eu level and beyond, a vast network of surveillance systems and law enforcement agencies has been set up, with the schengen treaty and the multi-layered databases of sis i and ii, vis, the directive on the monitoring of telephone and electronic/internet communications, in cooperation with the respective monopolies that intertwine for their own interests. the eu's apparent interest and concern in developments in countries that strengthen the 'faculties' of workers is therefore hypocritical. the resolution conceals the fact that all kinds of surveillance, collection and processing of personal data, including biometric data, have been imposed, including on children, and above all on those who carry out political and trade union activities, especially communists, trade unionists of the working class movement and other activists. it seeks to present the eu as a model in the protection of personal data, which even makes recommendations to the us, given the exchange and interconnection of information, but also the fierce competition between them and all kinds of secret services of the member states, the euro-police, as well as the corresponding services of third countries. the protection of the democratic rights and freedoms of workers requires the overthrow of the capitalist system, which will also allow for the disengagement from the eu and the abolition of all these reactionary mechanisms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the support for smes by the european fund for strategic investments and the recognition that monetary union has trapped some of its members in a currency that has harmed them are indications that this report is moving in the right direction.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote in favour of the report as a whole on the european semester on economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2015, because the support for small and medium-sized enterprises from the european fund for strategic investments and the recognition that monetary union has trapped some of its members in a currency that has harmed them are indications that this report is moving in the right direction.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european semester is the main vehicle for budgetary harmonisation within the eu. it is a major macroeconomic policy tool for this committee and marks the effort to move from monetary union to economic union. however, the wide discrepancies in the budgetary situation of the member states do not give much room for optimism in the short term and the existing proposals, such as the 'report of the five presidents', only cause us anxiety and concern.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the european semester on economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2015 because it is not complete and well-documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 28/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the proposal examines the services offered to the long-term unemployed with a view to their reintegration into the labour market and proposes specific actions to strengthen them. but because the whole process involves non-governmental organisations and, more specifically, social ngos with unknown economic and fiscal elements and interests, the vast majority of which, if not all, do not serve the purpose for which they were created, but instead pursue policies that are completely contrary to the public and social interest, and the economic recovery is not improving and there are no signs of improvement in the eu labour market, there is no reason to fund them and that is why we are voting against this proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the proposal examines the services offered to the long-term unemployed with a view to their reintegration into the labour market and proposes specific actions to strengthen them. but because the whole process involves non-governmental organisations and, more specifically, social ngos with unknown economic and fiscal elements and interests, which, if not all of them, the vast majority of them do not serve the purpose for which they were created but instead policies that are completely contrary to the public and social interest, while the economic recovery and the signs of improvement in the eu labour market are not improving, there is no reason to finance them and that is why i am voting against this proposal.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is complete and well-founded and for the reasons i have set out in detail in the written declaration (rule 162 (12)) on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the far from the problems and against the real needs of the longterm unemployed was the resolution on the 'integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market'. "programmes for reintegration into the labour market" and "better understanding of business requirements and needs" were some of the directions cut and tailored to the needs of capital in order to recover the profitability of the monopolies. it will be based on the draining of the workforce and the 'militarization' of the unemployed used in capitalism as a threat to the generalization of miserable working conditions and starvation wages for those who work. the resolution encourages so-called 'social dialogue' between enterprises and workers so that the unemployed are 'trained' to bow their heads to the demands of employers. the 'one-stop-shop' and 'individualised approach' to the unemployed promote the idea of 'individual solutions' so that the unemployed do not join the struggle with the rest of the unemployed, workers and the popular strata for their common interests. the kke group voted against the resolution and supports a coherent framework of demands for unemployment benefits for all unemployed without conditions, full and free medical care, etc. in the direction of a clash and overthrow of the capitalist system, the beginning of the end of unemployment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the far from the problems and against the real needs of the longterm unemployed was the resolution on the 'integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market'. "programmes for reintegration into the labour market" and "better understanding of business requirements and needs" were some of the directions cut and tailored to the needs of capital in order to recover the profitability of the monopolies. it will be based on the draining of the workforce and the 'militarization' of the unemployed used in capitalism as a threat to the generalization of miserable working conditions and starvation wages for those who work. the resolution encourages so-called 'social dialogue' between enterprises and workers so that the unemployed are 'trained' to bow their heads to the demands of employers. the 'one-stop-shop' and 'individualised approach' to the unemployed promote the idea of 'individual solutions' so that the unemployed do not join the struggle with the rest of the unemployed, workers and the popular strata for their common interests. the kke group voted against the resolution and supports a coherent framework of demands for unemployment benefits for all unemployed without conditions, full and free medical care, etc. in the direction of a clash and overthrow of the capitalist system, the beginning of the end of unemployment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the according to the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles in civil aviation, these systems are to be used for a wide range of purposes such as disaster management, search and rescue, environmental protection as well as law enforcement and surveillance. however, its use also involves significant risks which cannot be prevented, since strict rules are required, which have not yet been established. such risks arising from the use of these new technologies are the surveillance and tracking of persons and objects and the violation of fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. finally, it poses risks to public security as these systems may intentionally or unintentionally harm people and infrastructure. i therefore vote against this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as 'unmanned aerial vehicles', in the field of civil aviation, because it is well-founded and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 29/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the widespread use of new technologies, such as remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), must be accompanied by laws and regulations and related technologies aimed primarily at preserving and enhancing fundamental human rights, but also ensuring, to the greatest extent possible, the prohibition of their application against public security and in favour of terrorism.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it proposes actions in the fields of digitisation, sustainable and responsible tourism and the promotion of europe as the number one destination in the world. it also stressed the need to promote, protect and preserve europe's cultural heritage, the importance of coastal and maritime tourism and budgetary issues, calling on the commission to adopt a separate financial line for tourism in the next multiannual financial framework.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report builds on the three priorities of the juncker commission: sustainable growth and jobs, the connected digital single market and a deeper and fairer internal market, which have all remained stagnant. the proposals are merely half measures that lead to no result. the report also stresses the importance of avoiding cultural discrimination between religious and ethnic minorities and, finally, supports mobility and cooperation projects through various programmes by providing funds which will unfortunately be used for the benefit of specific enterprises with a sole purpose of profit and not for the benefit of professionals active in the tourism sector. i am therefore voting against this report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the report on the new challenges and concepts for promoting tourism in europe for the following reasons: it builds on the three priorities of the juncker commission, sustainable growth and jobs, the connected digital single market and a deeper and fairer internal market, which have however remained stagnant. the proposals are merely half measures that lead to no result. the report also stresses the importance of avoiding cultural discrimination between religious and ethnic minorities and, finally, supports mobility and cooperation projects through various programmes, providing funds which will unfortunately be used for the benefit of specific enterprises with a sole purpose of profit and not for the benefit of professionals active in the tourism sector.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the new challenges and ideas for promoting tourism in europe because it is not complete and well-documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 29/10/2015.
in writing. ‒ the the committee on transport and tourism has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. the 'branding', 'europe as a tourist destination' and 'pan-european and transnational tourist products' are the projects of the tourism business groups, which do not hesitate to use even 'health' as a tourist attraction in order to continue to be profitable. the report calls for the use of 'tourist visas' and 'visa-free agreements' at the same time as the eu intensifies its crackdown on refugees and migrants, highlighting how its so-called 'smart borders' operate, which are 'opened' or 'closed' according to the interests of monopolies. the xenophobic call for 'a report on the impact of the uncontrolled influx of migrants on tourism' is also unacceptable. in addition, there is no mention of the miserable working conditions of workers in the sector who, after being "drained" of their labour force, are again driven to unemployment, nor of the inability of popular families to have a few days of vacation, since the popular right to holidays, as long as monopolies prevail, has become a luxury commodity to be treasured by the business groups in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the the report is a half-hearted attempt to achieve a real effect in the tourism sector. the report also stresses the importance of avoiding cultural discrimination between religious and ethnic minorities and, finally, supports mobility and cooperation projects through various programmes by providing funds which will unfortunately be used for the benefit of specific enterprises with a sole purpose of profit and not for the benefit of professionals and smes active in the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ the the committee on transport and tourism has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. the 'branding', 'europe as a tourist destination' and 'pan-european and transnational tourist products' are the projects of the tourism business groups, which do not hesitate to use even 'health' as a tourist attraction in order to continue to be profitable. the report calls for the use of 'tourist visas' and 'visa-free agreements' at the same time as the eu intensifies its crackdown on refugees and migrants, highlighting how its so-called 'smart borders' operate, which are 'opened' or 'closed' according to the interests of monopolies. the xenophobic call for 'a report on the impact of the uncontrolled influx of migrants on tourism' is also unacceptable. in addition, there is no mention of the miserable working conditions of workers in the sector who, after being "drained" of their labour force, are again driven to unemployment, nor of the inability of popular families to have a few days of vacation, since the popular right to holidays, as long as monopolies prevail, has become a luxury commodity to be treasured by the business groups in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the use of technology to address abnormal behaviour in public transport aircraft can help to save lives in time in the event of an accident and to prevent criminal acts.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report focuses on the rapid deployment of a global, performance-based flight tracking system that will allow air navigation service providers to locate the location of a public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote areas. however, since the use of technology to deal with abnormal behaviour in public transport aircraft can help to save lives in time in the event of an accident and also to prevent criminal ones, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal on the allocation by the world radiocommunication conference, to be held in geneva from 2 to 27 november 2015 (wrc-15), of the necessary radio spectrum to support the future development of satellite technology with a view to achieving global flight tracking systems, because it is comprehensive and well-founded and for the reasons i outlined in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 29/10/2015.
in writing. ‒ the use of technology to address abnormal behaviour in public transport aircraft can help to save lives in time in the event of an accident and to prevent criminal acts.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind. especially after the financial crisis of 2008, we now have a crisis of competitiveness, we have too many layoffs, we have job losses. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the european union, which is to be implemented by the end of the year. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the autumn forecasts of the european union for a slow recovery of gdp in the euro area and the european union foreshadow for all member states a greater intensity of anti-people measures, surveillance, memoranda, sweeping restructuring. the aim of the european union and governments in the context of the european semester is to reduce the price of labour even further in order to strengthen capitalist profitability in international competition. the european union's decisions on refugees are aimed at providing european monopolies with the cheap labour they need at this time. at the same time in greece the government, by exempting business groups from insurance contributions and other burdens, recapitalizing the banks to ensure the financing of the monopolies, is burdening the people with even greater and more devastating taxation of workers, the self-employed, small and medium-sized farmers, by demolishing the insurance system, auctions and evictions from the first home of working class families. the strike tomorrow in greece is a full-scale response and an escalation step to recover losses in the direction of total overthrow.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr dombrovskis, your generalist speech and your sluggish and fragile growth cannot hide the great failures of the unilateral austerity you have been applying for years in the euro area and the great divergences. poverty has increased, unemployment has increased, inequality has increased, public debt has increased, investment has decreased. and since we are here to answer specifically, i ask you: do germany's excessive surpluses, mr dombrovskis, violate european rules? - yes or no ? why is the commission not taking action on these as it is taking action on excessive deficits? you say that transparency and democratic accountability and the role of the european parliament should be strengthened. why then, in the proposals you published on 21 october, do you deny the european parliament's role in implementing these legislative initiatives, and when will you finally accept the programme for greece, as the european parliament is asking, not only to be discussed behind closed doors in the commission and the eurogroup, but also in the relevant committees and the european parliament as a whole?
the commission mr president, the 2016 annual growth survey is a tangible proof of the dysfunction of the european policy being implemented. the programmes for fiscal consolidation, the plans for sustainable development, the creation of quality jobs and the juncker plan for development are, a priori, doomed to failure. economic distortions between member states, the economic crisis, the emerging market crisis, the slowdown in world trade and uncontrolled illegal immigration require bold decisions and policy change. the results of the implementation of reforms so far have contributed to undermining the european social model and ultimately to the loss of faith in the european idea among citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for five years in a row, the trojan brotherhood has been demanding more austerity, cuts in wages, pensions and spending. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the european media's propaganda is limited to the deliberately false and malicious texts of the greeks. the greek people are paying the european union's cheques with the blood of innocent people. the so-called democrats accuse the nationalist parties of fascism. in greece, in the case of the people, we say "the donkey said the rooster's head".
the commission mr president, the european semester is an anti-democratic institution which aims to restrict the rights of national parliaments to decide sovereignly on the way national budgets are drawn up. in greece, since 2010, the troika has abolished any power of the parliament to exercise its sovereign rights to shape the state budget. the troika of memoranda has turned greece into a huge social graveyard with millions of poor and huge armies of unemployed. the three-point memorandum voted by the five-point memorandum of syriza, anel, nd, pasok, potami dissolves the social security system, cuts pensions and wages, makes a tax-deferred blow to the pockets of the greeks, hammers the homes of my fellow citizens and dissolves the agricultural sector. mr dombrovskis, on your recent visit to athens you insisted on this hard memorandum policy. the greek people are no longer tolerating troika and memoranda and with the general strike of 12 november they are sending you a message of resistance and struggle.
the commission mr president, vice-president dombrovskis, in my country, greece, the figures in the commission's autumn forecasts are extremely worrying for our future, despite the apparent recovery of the euro area: recession of 1.4% in 2015, recession of 1.3% in 2016, unemployment of 25.7% in 2015, unemployment of 25.8% in 2016. in such an environment the commission should encourage structural changes by showing that their implementation ultimately leads to relief for citizens. at the same time, you must address the issue of competitiveness in each country individually, taking into account the assessments of the national competitiveness councils. in greece there is no room for wage cuts, there is no room for cuts, there is room for reducing government spending, there is room for cutting red tape and for increasing the absorption of community resources.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the structural reforms consist in deregulation of the labour market and the insurance system, i.e. a reduction in the purchasing power of consumers, which means that a recession is being launched. finally, fiscal stabilisation does nothing but ultimately raise the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product through the recession it causes. we need something different, something that puts the emphasis on job creation, and to do this, we need to ensure that smes, which will create jobs, in particular, have equal access to credit from the banking systems with the guarantee of the european central bank, that is to say, with bail out rather than bail in as is currently the case for the banking systems of the member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. as this year's annual growth survey of the eu shows, europe is still far from being out of the crisis. it is obvious that much more needs to be done. structural changes are necessary, but they are not enough. we need to encourage investment in every way. the unemployment rates, particularly in the countries of the european south, reveal the scale of the problem, but also the impasse in which the union has found itself in recent years. the new jobs so coveted can only come about by supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, reducing red tape and giving businesses access to bank loans. it is certain that if the business loan funnel is not opened soon, any plan for economic recovery will be doomed to failure.
the commission mr president, the air transport sector has all the prerequisites to become in the near future a major factor in the economic development of the countries of the european union. but to do so, the european union's strategy in this area will have to be adapted to meet the challenges of the present and the future. first, the industry must become competitive in order to cope with the economic pressures it is under from airlines from non-eu countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's air transport policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the internal market.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in greece, at the moment, after the imposition of the blackmail memorandum, the government is selling off 14 regional airports of enormous tourist importance with the approval and pressure of the commission and the eurogroup. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the ccipb and the ccipb in 2004 was concluded on the basis of the same principles as the one concluded between the ccipb and the ccipb in 2005. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. he will pledge the greek property for forty years. it will bind the greek public in colonial-style contracts and will eventually have the upper hand in the pricing policy of the rest of the state airports. the greek people, together with the general strike in greece tomorrow, are fighting to force the greek government to stop submitting to the colonial demands of the creditors.
the commission mr president, the aeronautics industry is one of the european union's most important drivers of growth and employment, and is closely linked to the european air transport sector with a turnover of eur 100 billion per year and around half a million direct jobs. in greece, the troika and the memorandum government have, on merkel's orders, leased 14 regional airports for 40 plus 10 years to the german state-owned company fraport, which also operates athens' eleftherios venizelos airport. a state-owned company thus gains a dominant position in the operation of airports in europe and also gains a dominant monopoly position in the greek tourism market in violation of the european union rules on free competition and state aid. the greek airports are being taken over by germans and greek tourism is now being turned into a german fiefdom, and this is something the greek people are not going to allow.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, commissioner, what is the point of talking today about the competitiveness of european air transport, international cooperation, affordable prices for consumers, a social agenda and high levels of safety when all of this is not working for the benefit of citizens with the blessings, of course, of the european directorate? or is a monopoly only good when it is state-owned and german? what i want to say. while we are discussing the future of european air transport, in greece, as has been said by colleagues before, fourteen state regional airports are being handed over to the german fraport sientel consortium on predatory terms and with the blessing and pressure of the troika. a selective takeover of only those airports which have been found to be economically viable and for which, for an indefinite period, the upgrade is announced. in fact, it does not provide any prospects for growth, since it does not undertake any serious investment commitments. a concession sacrificed to the blackmailing memorandum policy which creates an unacceptable monopoly for the benefit of the german government and burdens the greek public with compensation to existing suppliers. a concession which not only does not protect workers, but puts them in a hostage labour situation. is this what europe means by growth, commissioner?
the commission mr president, the union claims that one of the main pillars of its existence is the free movement of people and goods and that its main objective is to promote the single market. firstly, with this in mind, the decision to abolish roaming charges is a very positive step, since these charges are nothing but pure speculation on the part of companies. on the contrary, the way in which taxation is carried out in europe, with different rates for each country, inevitably leads to inequalities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. five years of austerity that was supposed to bring growth, has entrenched recession and driven citizens into poverty and businesses to close or flee in order to survive. the results of this policy are the prosperity of the numbers and the banks, not the people. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. because above any treaty or economic agreement are the needs of the people.
the commission mr president, we supported the abolition of roaming charges immediately and not from 2017. we have supported it unconditionally and without asterisks, ticks or exceptions, as was finally the case with the vote by the european parliament on this matter. we see zero-ticketing as a threat to the open internet, which should allow unlimited use, and we also see it as a threat to net neutrality. net neutrality requires that there is equality among internet service providers and that no website or service is blocked. however, with the zero-rating practice, websites are not presented in the same way to consumers, as some are provided free of charge, and thus internet traffic is not on equal terms for everyone. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. we need uniform rules for zero-rating practices.
the commission madam president, in order to deal with the problem of the crisis in syria and the causes of migration and displacement in africa, the european union countries will be obliged to pay more than 500 million euros. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. migrants and refugees will continue to come in waves to europe, the need to finance them will continue to exist and the peoples of europe and in particular the long-suffering greek people will continue to suffer from the exhausting austerity measures imposed to finance illegal immigrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the money should also be given to the countries of origin of migrants so that they can develop economically and their governments cannot allow migration to europe. the hot spots should be in the countries of origin and not in the countries of entry, and finally turkey should be forced to stop sending thousands of refugees to greece and europe.
the commission madam president, we have said it again in this chamber: greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the aegean islands are being flooded by the thousands of poor syrian refugees. and what is the european union doing? he gives scraps to deal with the refugee crisis in greece, which has been impoverished by the memoranda. at the same time, the european union is scolding turkey instead of threatening it with action if it does not stop the uncontrolled trade flows that are transporting thousands of refugees and illegal migrants to the aegean. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, to abolish dublin iii and to apply the clause allocating refugees and illegal immigrants at the level of the european union, according to the gdp, population and area of each country. thirdly, development aid should be given to african countries to stop illegal immigration from there. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international criminal court.
the commission madam president, madam vice-president of the european commission, mrs georgieva, the greeks who are welcoming refugees to lesvos and kos and who see children drowning are also asking what the european union is doing about it. the answer is that the european union does a lot, but it happens in life that we are responsible not only for what we do but also for what we do not do. and indeed here the funding of the trusts, the funds for syria and africa, is being dramatically delayed. the question is: is the time for voluntary contributions from the member states binding? is that enough money ? no, it's the answer. when will they be paid? no one has responded yet. how will this funding increase? will it take into account that €9.4 billion of additional resources are being given to the member states to finance such actions as well? and thirdly, and more seriously, how do we as the european union monitor the implementation of agreements with third countries which are financed from our own resources? starting with turkey, which receives three billion euros in pre-accession aid. how do we do that ? we must act, act now, because otherwise euroscepticism will flourish on the despair that refugees bring to our soil.
the commission madam president, human rights violations are a frequent phenomenon in europe, and even more pronounced are violations of women's rights and inequality between the sexes. the daphne programme has made it possible to solve many gender inequalities. the european commission must take a number of immediate measures to ensure women's rights and gender equality. in my country, greece, it is the memorandum policy and austerity that have irreparably hurt women, as the unemployment rate for women in the first quarter of 2015 stood at 30.6% against 23.5% for men, confirming that the memorandum policies are exacerbating inequalities between the two sexes. women are paid at least 16% less than men and average pensions are 39% lower than men. these gender inequalities must be stopped immediately, and through the daphne programme.
in writing. ‒ we are voting because the modernisation and upgrading of the services offered by public administration to citizens and businesses will contribute to the growth that our country so badly needs, as well as reduce the bureaucracy that has been a big problem in our country long before the economic crisis. the articles on the publication of public contracts will also help to combat corruption. the only objection is the possible involvement of private companies in the handling of personal data which should be avoided.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against interoperability solutions as a means of modernising the public sector, because modernising and upgrading the services that public administration provides to citizens and businesses will contribute to the growth that my country so badly needs, as well as cutting red tape that has been a big problem in my country long before the economic crisis. the articles on the publication of public contracts will also help to combat corruption. the only objection is the possible involvement of private companies in the handling of personal data which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ in general, the rapporteur supported the commission proposal. in his opinion, this programme should be as a part of ambitious and socially inclusive european digital agenda. he also believes that more emphasis should be put on the demand side while modernising the public sector, in order to respond more effectively and efficiently to civil society’s needs. gue tabled several amendments, mainly focused on avoidance of digital divide, guaranteeing the data protection and benefits of the programme to citizens. most of them were included in the text of the final report. this is why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2), interoperability as a means of modernising the public sector, because the report is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the modernisation and upgrading of the services offered by public administration to citizens and businesses will contribute to the growth that our country so badly needs, as well as cutting red tape that has been a big problem in our country for a long time before the economic crisis. the articles on the publication of public contracts will also help to combat corruption. the only objection is the possible involvement of private companies in the handling of personal data which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by the committee responsible, having regard to the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in which i am an alternate. this initiative brings multiple benefits to european societies by strengthening the digital single market, the quality of life of citizens and the competitiveness of national economies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. although there are some positive elements in this draft as regards the organisational part of elections for the elections of members of the european parliament, the bulk of the report is devoted to reducing the role of national parties and promoting professional eu politicians who will no longer be accountable to the citizens of the member states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. although there are some positive elements in the organisational part of elections for the european parliament, the bulk of the report is devoted to downplaying the role of national parties and promoting professional eu politicians who will no longer be accountable to the citizens of the member states. for these reasons, i am voting against the report on the revision of the electoral legislation of the european union.
in writing. ‒ yet again, parliament is trying to draft suggestions for changing the existing law for the election of its members, and to give guidelines to member states in order to obtain changes in their national laws accordingly. i submitted an abstention vote because, although there are certain positive issues, many others need to be addressed in a more concrete way. one example is the nomination of lead candidates for the office of president of the commission as practised by some european political parties in the 2014 european elections – an arbitrary procedure not provided for in the treaties, as the president of the commission is elected not directly but indirectly by parliament.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the revision of the electoral law of the european union, for the reasons i mentioned in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 27/10/2015, and because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the proposals to change the european elections legislation seek to promote more decisively the aggressive policy of capital at the expense of the people, to strengthen the 'european parties' and to put greater obstacles to the expression of the popular will. the definition of a 'common constituency' with a single ballot for european political parties, the simultaneous announcement of the candidates for the presidency of the commission and the inclusion of the names of the european parliaments on the respective ballot papers of the national parties attempt to legitimize the eu in the minds of the people. to restore the non-existent prestige and influence of the european political parties, of the european parliament itself, as instruments of the eu for manipulating the workers' and popular consciences. the proposal to set a minimum electoral threshold for the election of meps from 3% to 5% also seeks to exclude political forces opposed to the eu and its anti-people policy, first and foremost the communist parties. the proposal for both postal and electronic voting, even for non-eu residents, is also dangerous. the attempts of the bourgeois political forces to incorporate the popular reactions, and with such methods, must fall into the void. the working people have an interest in condemning the eu and its parties, in rejecting the proposed changes which are aimed at blackmailing and enclosing popular forces.
in writing. ‒ the promotion of new electoral laws should contribute to the consolidation of democracy, proportionality and subsidiarity, as required by national laws and the principles of eu functioning, within the framework of participation and popular sovereignty.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ this report, which i supported, aims to modernise electoral systems, strengthening democracy and the representativeness of the process, proposing that the member states concerned should converge in a framework with more common features.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the aviation sector is an important factor in the economic development of the european union. it should be maintained at a competitive level, with environmentally friendly technologies and rules, with an increased level of safety measures.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of all the reports on the future air transport package. the aviation sector is an important factor in the economic development of the european union. it should be kept at a competitive level with environmentally friendly technologies and rules, with an increased level of safety measures.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion for a resolution by the epp, s&d and alde contains a very weak social agenda in the aviation sector. that is why i voted against. on the other hand, the resolution by gue/ngl underlines the need to preserve and reinforce jobs and working conditions, pinning down the concept of a ‘principal place of business’, and calls on the commission to strengthen the protection of workers and consumers in the event of bankruptcy of an air carrier.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the joint motion for a resolution on aviation because it is not complete and well-founded, and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 11/11/2015.
in writing. the new 'package' for aviation, with 'single european sky 2', aims to complete the liberalisation of aviation in the eu and its member states, with the complete handover of state infrastructure and air navigation management to business groups. the 'single european sky' aims to unify airspace across the eu, abolishes the sovereign rights of eu member states to control and manage their airspace and endangers their defence security, while being part of nato's offensive plans. the privatisation of the 14 regional airports by the syriza-anel coalition government is part of this eu and member states' policy in favour of monopolies, a strategic choice by capital to increase its profitability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis communautaire. workers must fight for radical changes in the economy and power, to become the owners of the wealth they produce, thus imposing the secession from the eu, to make the people's needs the criterion for production.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the aviation sector is an important factor in the economic development of the european union. it should be kept at a competitive level with environmentally friendly technologies and rules, with an increased level of safety measures.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this resolution which prioritises improving the services provided to the traveller/consumer. by strengthening european airspace, it modernises safety rules while proposing a framework that supports the competitiveness of the industry.
in writing. the new 'package' for aviation, with 'single european sky 2', aims to complete the liberalisation of aviation in the eu and its member states, with the complete handover of state infrastructure and air navigation management to business groups. the 'single european sky' aims to unify airspace across the eu, abolishes the sovereign rights of eu member states to control and manage their airspace and endangers their defence security, while being part of nato's offensive plans. the privatisation of the 14 regional airports by the syriza-anel coalition government is part of this eu and member states' policy in favour of monopolies, a strategic choice by capital to increase its profitability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis communautaire. workers must fight for radical changes in the economy and power, to become the owners of the wealth they produce, thus imposing the secession from the eu, to make the people's needs the criterion for production.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but for us, all these organisms are part of the problem, and indeed one of the main causes of the problem, and they are clearly not part of the solution. as advocates of economic and social liberalism, you want world trade to be determined by transnational organizations with the least possible interference by the states. governments are the only ones that are, to some extent, controlled by citizens. instead, these transnational organizations merely hand over power to the multinationals and big business while pretending to care and try to protect the people. in fact, it is these organizations that are promoting the liberalisation of markets from all kinds of barriers and controls with devastating consequences for workers and for entire societies. in addition, small and mediumsized enterprises are collapsing, unable to resist the encroachment of the large groups actively supported by the world trade organization, at the very time when everyone is pretending to care about them. but unable to hide its true identity, the world trade organization is not content to control the economic activity of all nations. it seeks to impose their views on every aspect of society, on the management of public administration, on tax policy, on education, on social policies and on institutional reforms. well, no, no relief for international usurious capital, no concessions to those who destroy nations and peoples for money. for us greek nationalists, the only positive move the wto could make would be to dissolve itself.
the commission mr president, the doha development agenda must aim at economic growth, the establishment of rules to facilitate fair trade and the reduction of imbalances in the international trading system. however, what is actually happening is the complete and unconditional liberalisation of trade, which leads to deindustrialisation, job losses and economic crises. the european union is not only a democratically elected body, but also a political body, and it is not only a political body, but it is also a political body. it is therefore necessary to develop fair and balanced trade regulations that serve social justice. in addition, each state should retain sovereignty in the regulation of its economic relations and in the allocation of resources to the various public sectors, in order to curb the speculation of large enterprises through unequal trade relations and transactions.
i have received a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 26 november 2015. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the commission i would like to ask the house to consider the following serious matter. i've asked it before. the house is sitting so that we can participate in the discussions. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we cannot have committee meetings at the same time, and in particular committee meetings and votes. at this moment, at 7 p.m., i am called upon to take part in a vote at a joint meeting of the libe and peti committees on a serious matter, namely frontex. i object because i want to be part of the discussion. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of important decisions on the subject. i would ask you to refer this matter to the president, mr schultz, and to point out to the committee chairmen that this is a plenary week and not a committee vote week. the votes in the committees will be held in brussels next week.
the commission madam president, the free trade agreement signed in august 2015 between the european union and vietnam eliminates customs duties on trade in goods, services and investment and provides for an increase in the european union's gdp of over 2%. in the context of their negotiations, the european union and vietnam are supposed to have launched a structured dialogue on the protection of human rights, which must be the basis of any trade agreement, in accordance with the treaty on european union. however, this agreement does not give a damn about the human rights violations that are taking place today in vietnam and it does like the other trade agreements, ttip and tisa, whose only interest is to profit for the big multinational companies at the expense of small and mediumsized companies and thus lead to a reduction in employment in the countries applied. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, ecuador has dared in modern times to move boldly towards cancelling the country's external debt to third parties and this is an important message in all directions. today we are discussing the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement of the european union with peru and colombia. but if the agreement is to be beneficial for ecuador, care must be taken to ensure that trade liberalization benefits the ecuadorian people and not the multinationals. this means that provision must be made for the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises, local employment, labour rights and the rural economy, and this cannot be done with trade agreements that promote a full and unconditional liberalisation of trade in goods and services. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the poorest of the poor, including a protection net for vulnerable groups and financial mechanisms to offset the social impact of the opening of the ecuadorian market to european union companies.
the commission madam president, the protection of animal welfare is a major issue for the commission to take into account. the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 has delivered a number of positive results in helping to eradicate animal torture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the measures to include the following: it should also be noted that on a world scale animals are literally tortured and submitted to terrible pain on the altar of profiteering as is the case with whaling. the european commission should therefore take a number of additional measures to ensure the good treatment of animals and, of course, to protect them from any kind of torture or similar practices which lead to the ill treatment of animals. finally, there should be a proposal for a simplified european union legislative framework on animal welfare.
ecr), in writing. children living in poverty are not only a problem of developing countries but also of developed countries. in particular, in the period of financial crisis we are going through, along with the increase in social inequalities, there is also an increase in the levels of poverty and social exclusion of children, especially in the countries of southern europe - which are affected by the merkel austerity. in particular, according to eurostat data, greece ranks 30th among 35 developed countries in relative poverty and second to last in public expenditure on the family (1.1% of gdp). in addition, compared to 2014, there was a doubling in the number of minors seeking asylum in europe to escape from war zones. so from january to september 2015, about 190,000 children sought asylum in europe. clearly, all eu states should strengthen universal social services for children, such as the provision of subsidized or free meals to children, develop policies to defend the rights of the child to education, health and protection from violence, and increase subsidies for access to culture and entertainment for all children.
the commission madam president, the troika, the memoranda and merkel's austerity have turned greece into the most marginalized country in the european union. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the situation in the community, which is a very important one, and i would like to ask the commission to give its opinion on the matter. the merkel austerity measures applied in greece and the countries of the european south have created a two-speed europe. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and it has been a party to the treaty of amsterdam, and it has been a party to the treaty of rome. the european union must therefore put an end to this situation and create a union of equality and equal opportunities for all its citizens and member states.
the commission mr president, we are discussing the role of the european union in the un, which, as we know, aims to protect human rights and promote economic and social development. however, development and the fight against poverty require resources which are not available in the developing countries and the countries of the european periphery, since the repayment of public debts goes to usurious lenders and the economic life of these countries has been drained. the resolution adopted by the un general assembly last september on procedures for restructuring and cancelling the public debts of developing countries must therefore enter into force. but this resolution of the un general assembly was not supported by any member state of the european union, not even the heavily indebted countries of the european south, following the orders of brussels, the troika and the international lenders. it has therefore been shown that the european union is shedding crocodile tears for the un and is only interested in its narrow economic interests and nothing else.
the commission madam president, the syriza-anel coalition government has just voted a few days ago another shameful law with preconditions demanded by the troika and the creditors: a key aspect of the law is red loans. the greek banks, with the successive recapitalisations that have taken place, should have written off many red loans long ago, because they received funds for this purpose. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budgetary authority is able to make a proper assessment of the budgetary situation, and that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the situation in the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the greek people will fight peacefully and democratically and we will not allow any of our compatriots to lose their homes as happened in spain. no house in the hands of a banker. no home for the crows.
the commission mr president, today, given the development of science and technology, the discovery of new sources, new pipelines, what is the obstacle to people enjoying cheap energy to have heating in winter, air conditioning in summer, for energy workers to have labour rights, to reduce the energy dependence of countries like greece? the obstacle is the production criterion. the capitalist profit. this is what the european union and its governments are serving. in greece, for example, the ppp is preparing new increases. he's cutting off power to thousands of low-income households who can't afford to pay. in the context of the energy union scheduled for 2019, energy is being handed over to business groups, which will drive up already unaffordable prices at the expense of working-class families. this is the strategy of capital serving the profits of monopolies in the territory of fierce competition of the european union, its member states, with russia, china and the united states. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
the commission mr president, the european union is at a critical juncture in its energy policy. in an environment of global instability the peoples of europe cannot afford to be dependent on fuels coming from the most dangerous areas of the world. it is a fact that despite the relative reduction in pollutant emissions in europe in recent years, levels are still very high with known catastrophic consequences for the environment. firstly, we should support those member states where, in recent years, exploitable hydrocarbon deposits have been found, such as greece and cyprus, in order to reduce dependence on third countries and to shield ourselves from price fluctuations. on the gas issue, europe, which is heavily dependent on russia for energy, in pursuit of its anti-russian policy, wants to import us lng from shale gas via greece, as was agreed at political level during prime minister alexis tsipras' recent visit to the us. we must stop the sterile rivalry with russia and look more at what unites us rather than what might divide us. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources is a step in the right direction.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, commissioner, you have presented us with the state of the energy union, based on the same failed model of privatisation which cannot guarantee our countries energy security, reduction of economic and environmental costs or the fight against energy poverty. the commissioner, the demands of the troika in greece, both in the first memorandum and in the recent discussions, the discussions now taking place with the greek government, which call for the privatisation of the state electricity company and the energy networks, are moving in the same direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i ask you, commissioner, why you insist on the privatization of the country's transport networks, which is reported to be 66% today? and, finally, should the commission not stop imposing such destructive policies in the name of economic interests and geopolitical pursuits which are to the detriment of the greek public interest and the consumers in greece?
the commission the commission's report on the state of progress of the energy union and my country, greece, is particularly interesting. the report rightly points out that greece can become a regional energy hub, both in terms of the electricity market and in terms of natural gas. this can only be done, however, if the ppp is strengthened rather than devalued and the ppp remains public property with public administration. at the same time, my country must exploit all its energy resources, that is to say, renewable energy sources and our mineral wealth in the ionian and aegean seas and southern crete. recent discoveries of fossils in egypt and cyprus reinforce this strategy. the construction of at least one additional lng station is of particular importance in terms of the trajectory, while the strengthening of the multiple southern energy corridors, which will pass through greece, is an immediate priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the mercy of the troika and the creditors, and that the interests of our people, their well-being and the eradication of energy poverty are taken into account.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european energy union, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, and the establishment of a european energy agency. firstly, there must be initiatives to reduce the energy costs of industry, particularly energy-intensive industries, and thus to strengthen its competitiveness and increase exports. secondly, the state electricity company, which has traditionally been a factor in the growth of the greek economy, must be consolidated and developed. thirdly, the energy market must be liberalised quickly and effectively in a way that is based on attracting capital, the cohesion funds and the juncker programme. finally, much can be done in the field of energy saving, provided that the financing problems of businesses and households are solved.
the commission mr president, consumers should enjoy the same level of protection and be on an equal footing regardless of the differences between distribution channels. it is also necessary to provide consumers with appropriate and sufficient information about any insurance product in order to strengthen the internal market. in addition, information should be provided to avoid misinformation which can be caused by misleading advertising, for example to consumers, and that is why the insurance intermediary is needed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. more generally, in insurance mediation, provisions for the protection of consumers should be in line with union law in order to cover the risk of misinformation or damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement for workers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it concerns the repeal of 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee and of council regulation (ec) no 189/2008, due to their incorporation into subsequent acts and the operational start of sis ii, respectively, which is a formality, since the previous decisions have become obsolete or had a temporary character. the change of the title of the act from 'decision' to 'regulation' means that the schengen acquis is binding on the member states, on the basis of article 228 tfeu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the repeal of certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice because, while in many of its articles it gives the eu the power to achieve its foreign policy, there are also significant negative points which show that, in the end, its participation in this game is not what it should be in order to be the most important factor of influence for the global political and geopolitical changes taking place, once again tied to the us chariot.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this initiative, as did the majority of my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which is improving the act.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it concerns the abolition, as obsolete, of the acts of the schengen executive committee on combating drug trafficking, child abduction, the sis ii system, the police manual and the procedures for infringements of the code of conduct. in particular, the change of the type of act from 'decision' to 'regulation' alone better serves the purpose of the proposal, which is to abolish acts which are obsolete.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because changing the type of act from 'decision' to 'regulation' serves the purpose of the proposal better, which is to repeal acts that are obsolete.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, which takes account of all the parameters for the improved amendment of the text.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it concerns the repeal, as obsolete, of seven joint actions, one act and one framework decision on police and judicial cooperation between member states. in particular, this regulation alone better serves the purpose of the proposal, which is to repeal acts which are obsolete.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because this regulation better serves the purpose of the proposal, which is to repeal acts that are obsolete.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this too. the wording of the text by the rapporteur is in line with the positions of our group, as expressed in the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ positive, because compliance with international fisheries agreements and respect for species such as tuna are the guarantee for the conservation and proper management of these species.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on accession to the enlarged committee of the convention for the conservation of southern hemisphere tuna, because compliance with international fisheries agreements and respect for species such as tuna are the guarantee for the conservation and proper management of these species.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the southern hemisphere tuna conservation board (ccsbt) for the purpose of the union's membership of the extended southern hemisphere tuna conservation board, because it is comprehensive and well documented.
in writing. ‒ this initiative, which i voted in favour of, was adopted by a large majority in the committee on fisheries. the text lays down the conditions for better cooperation and participation of the regional organisations concerned.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the in the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance mediation, i decided to abstain in the final vote. the report contains many positive elements, strengthening consumer protection and placing great emphasis on the right of consumers to information on insurance products. however, the proposed directive does not provide sufficient guarantees of transparency, in particular as regards the procurement of insurance intermediaries, leaving consumers exposed to exploitation.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we oppose the proposal for a directive because it essentially requires member states to adopt and follow specific positions on the distribution of insurance or reinsurance products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the content of the proposal does not correspond to greek reality.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the proposal for a directive because it essentially requires member states to adopt and follow specific positions on the distribution of insurance or reinsurance products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the content of the proposal does not correspond to greek reality.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on the supplementary report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance mediation, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ i followed the rapporteur's proposal by voting in favour of the resolution of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, as did most of the political groups.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on reducing inequalities with a particular focus on child poverty makes a very good point about the need to protect a particularly vulnerable social group, and that is why i voted in favour. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. it is significant that in the period 2008-2012 alone, the number of children at risk of poverty in europe increased by one million. in greece, one of the countries hardest hit by the economic crisis and austerity policies, the percentage of children living below or at the poverty line reached 37% in 2014, according to eurostat. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the crisis. it is clear that the reports are not enough and that europe is finally called upon to take concrete and courageous decisions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in many member states, and particularly in greece, the proportion of children living in extreme and long-term poverty is increasing due to the economic crisis. the negative policy measures taken today will have irreparable negative effects on children's lives and society. the report does not recommend changes and cuts in the public services of the member states, but instead proposes a more coherent policy of increasing and redistributing eu funds. to this end, it is equally imperative to abolish the treaty on economic governance and budgetary control. the report also supports the subsidies needed to ensure the right to education, culture, sport and recreation for all children, to protect them from abuse, violence and neglect. the report also calls for an increase in the number of social services staff and specialists, in order to increase the medical, psychological and social care of children, which means job creation. for all the above reasons, we vote in favour of report a8-0310/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the in many member states, and particularly in greece, the proportion of children living in extreme and long-term poverty is increasing due to the economic crisis. the negative policy measures taken today will have irreparable negative effects on children's lives and society. the report does not recommend changes and cuts in the public services of the member states, but instead proposes a more coherent policy of increasing and redistributing eu funds. to this end, it is equally imperative to abolish the treaty on economic governance and budgetary control. the report also supports the subsidies needed to ensure the right to education, culture, sport and recreation for all children, with a view to protecting them from abuse, violence and neglect. the report also calls for an increase in the number of social services staff and specialists, in order to increase the medical, psychological and social care of children, which means job creation. for all the above reasons, i am voting in favour of report a8-0310/2015.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on reducing inequalities with particular emphasis on child poverty, because it is not sufficiently substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the ever-increasing number of children of working class families who experience their impoverishment, deprived of access to basic goods, housing, food, essential food, public and free education and health, is a reflection of the brutality of the exploitative capitalist system. the cause of this misery is obscured by the report which supports the eu's anti-people strategy and the capitalist development path which leads to a new impasse for working-class families. the report seeks to reconcile the incompatible, namely the fight against child poverty, with the objectives of the european semester's europe 2020 strategy and the emu, the implementation of which requires the bankruptcy of workers. it is indicative that the report speaks of "affordable and accessible education" while rejecting the right to public and free education for all children. for poverty and misery there is a culprit and he has a name: the european union and its governments are following the monopoly and its profit protection policies faithfully. that is why the people must overthrow them in order to pave the way for a society and an economy designed to meet the popular needs of the working class and its children.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this vote. child poverty is a disgrace to the international community and an affront to human nature. there is no room for any discount in the safeguarding of human rights, especially the rights of children. the fight against child poverty must be a priority for all policy-makers at national, european and international level.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy is a powerful tool of the european union to reduce disparities within the union's regions and to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. this tool is proving particularly useful for marginalised communities, i.e. the various groups and individuals who are socially excluded and systematically prevented from participating in social and political processes, such as people with disabilities, people living below or at risk of poverty, migrants, refugees and others. the report calls on the commission to expand funding opportunities to support marginalised communities and to ensure the participation of these groups in the overall process, while at the same time highlighting the importance of implementing cohesion policy to tackle poverty and exclusion of the various marginalised communities. the report draws particular attention to the role played by disastrous austerity policies in reinforcing the marginalisation of certain social groups and calls for the human rights dimension to be taken into account when planning actions supported by cohesion funds. i have voted in favour of the report for all these reasons.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the this report supports the participation of women belonging to national minorities, migrants, refugees, mainly roma, etc., in all eu-funded programmes, initiatives and actions; stresses the need to strengthen regional, national and european networks of women in marginalised communities, and supports their access to leadership positions. the report is a good one, but it is also a good one, and i think it is a good one, because it is a report which is very important for the european union, and it is a report which is very important for the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the participation of women belonging to national minorities, migrants, refugees, mainly roma, etc., in all eu-funded programmes, initiatives and actions; stresses the need to strengthen regional, national and european networks of women in marginalised communities, and supports their access to leadership positions. in view of the above, i am voting against the report as a whole, as the rights and values of european citizens are being levelled out in relation to minorities and immigrants who embrace different cultures.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy is one of the strongest instruments in order to fight inequality and support territorial and social cohesion. this report aims to fight exclusion of marginalised communities (such as migrants, indigenous peoples, persons with disabilities) and granting them better access to healthcare and education and employment. i support this report, because it focuses on targeted groups, to address their situation. through eu funds, we will be able to overcome the problem of exclusion of marginalised communities and establishing greater cohesion in european societies. i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rapporteur's view by voting in favour of this report, which was sufficiently discussed both in the committee responsible and in the plenary session.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ abstention, because while in many of its articles it gives the eu the power to implement its foreign policy, on the other hand there are significant negative points that show that in the end its participation in this game is not what it should be, so that it is the most important factor of influence for the global political and geopolitical changes taking place, since it is once again tied to the us chariot.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the role of the eu in the united nations in order to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives, because while in many of its articles it gives the eu the power to implement its foreign policy, on the other hand there are significant negative points which show that in the end its participation in this game is not what it should be in order to be the most important factor of influence for the global political and geopolitical changes taking place, since it is once again tied to the us chariot.
in writing. ‒ the un is the first level for putting international relations on a legal base. the report gives a strategic orientation for the participation of the eu within the un system. the eu should actively support a reform of the un in order to strengthen its legitimacy, accountability and effectiveness. another positive aspect of the report is the will to reform also the un security council. however, the questions of an eu seat and eu peace enforcing operations remain unsolved. therefore, i abstained from the vote on this report, since i cannot fully support it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the eu's role within the un - ways to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives, because it is not complete and well-documented.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i contributed to the drafting of the opinion of the committee on culture and education in the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs. i have of course supported this own-initiative report.
mr president, this report is an important step forward, as it sets the legislative framework for sanctions against those who promote and implement unacceptable tax avoidance and tax planning practices, and also because it deprived all of us of the pretence that we did not know what was going on. a year ago, many were pretending that tax havens did not exist within the eu, so i guess it was difficult to believe how easily they who demanded the increased competitiveness of the countries of southern europe are actually the ones who undermined the competitiveness of the eu with their well-hidden fiscal practices. now we know that we have to do something, and we know what to do: we have the road map to do it. it is paramount to keep pushing for more transparency and more tangible results, especially in the workings of the code of conduct group, the willingness of which to cooperate remains questionable. so it is not addressed enough in this report, but we expect the council to stop sabotaging the work of the european parliament and the commission on taxation issues. the momentum is already accelerating for a more transparent fiscal environment in the eu, and we must assure those who put resistance and obstacles in our way that there is no way to stop us.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the report we are discussing today, mr president, reveals the absurdity of building a single market for capital, goods and services between the member states of the european union without a single tax system. the result is that cross-border competition is created to attract firms with incentives of lower tax rates and hidden tax breaks. moreover, large multinational companies benefit from their inherent capacity to over- or under-price intra-group transactions and take advantage of national preferential schemes to avoid paying taxes in good faith. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected by the treaty and the treaty of amsterdam. we need uniform tax rules and their application in practice if we want a europe which promotes the well-being of its people and not the bankruptcy of big capital.
the commission mr president, most member states of the european union are affected by tax evasion and tax avoidance and multinational companies have proved to be the main actors in this kind of practice. in particular, tax avoidance by multinationals results in zero tax revenue on profits they make in european jurisdictions and erosion of the national tax base. moreover, these companies, through intra-group transactions, avoid paying taxes on their profits, thus creating social inequalities and affecting the budgets of the states negatively. however, in the face of tax ruling decisions, all eu member states are called upon to take measures to stop multinationals turning to tax havens and avoiding tax in the netherlands or luxembourg, as has become known through luxleaks. finally, the profits of multinationals should be taxed where they are made.
the commission mr president, the results of the conciliation for the 2016 budget reveal the hypocrisy of the heads of the european union institutions. it is an embarrassment when they are supposedly at odds with each other to reach a final agreement on an increase of eur 101 million in commitment appropriations and a reduction of eur 571 million in payment appropriations, for a total of eur 155 and 144 billion respectively. a budget that, while proclaiming growth, entrepreneurship and job creation, reduces the appropriations for regional convergence in the least developed regions and the appropriations for the youth employment initiative compared to 2015. a budget which limits the financing of the european agricultural, maritime, fisheries and regional development guarantee funds, but at the same time increases the appropriations to be given to the turkish occupying forces in the republic of cyprus and indirectly finances the increase in the number of illegal immigrants on the territory of the old continent, cannot be described as european. the european union must not allow its financial interests to dictate the fate of europe and its countries. change direction while you still have time. it'll be too late soon.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people from the risks of exposure to radiation is a very good one. and that's because they only deal with the effects and not the causes of the problem. we hesitate to teach our children to love their country so that we are not seen as nationalists and extremists. we don't raise our children with the principles of christianity so we won't be seen as conservative and fanatical. we are not interested in teaching the history of our country, the principles and values of the european union and european culture, so as not to be considered racist and xenophobic. we are tolerating and choosing to be governed by incompetent and corrupt politicians who are destroying the economy, destroying democracy, impoverishing the peoples of europe and creating armies of unemployed young people. this is how we make our children easy prey for jihadist propaganda. for how can the young european not hate this untouchable state? he doesn't want to punish a society that is hostile to him and takes away his right to hope for the future. so let us give our children ideals, let us eliminate these causes and then we shall see how capable, progressive and, above all, indifferent to jihadist propaganda are the young people of europe.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. they are the same ones who at every opportunity have promoted the rise of islamism, criminalized any reaction and stigmatized those who dared to say the obvious. the perpetrators of the recent attacks were neither unemployed nor marginalized. one of them even worked in a belgian civil service. unemployment and marginalization can in no way be the cause of what has happened. if that were true, greece, with almost 60% youth unemployment, would be nothing but a huge terrorist camp. these people have chosen to embrace extremism. the real cause is the acceptance of the preaching of radical islam and the catechism in some mosques, operating with or without the permission of various governments in europe, as well as the strong support of saudi arabia, which has the doctrine of wahhabism as its official religion. if you really want to prevent the recruitment of new terrorists in europe, close all mosques that embrace such ideas. also, stop the neo-colonial attacks on countries in the middle east, but also the whole world.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the close relationship between daesh and turkey is confirmed daily as more and more reports in the international press prove turkey's support for the jihadists, not only in syria but also in libya. at the same time, turkey's involvement in syria is exacerbating the crisis, because under the pretext of confronting daesh it is finally bombing the kurds. it is worth noting that the jihadists have been covered by the turkish intelligence services as a video has been shown by a television channel showing the turkish mit trading with the jihadists. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to point out again the recent confirmation of turkish involvement in the ship, loaded with weapons and ammunition, which was bound for a jihadist enclave in libya, having sailed from the turkish coast until it was stopped by the port authorities of crete. the european union must therefore stop its incitement against turkey if it is to deal effectively with daesh.
gue/ngl), in writing. the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations which we have discussed today is a confusing one, since there is no commonly accepted definition of terrorism. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the real problem is the willingness of a few thousand fanatics to murder mass and indiscriminate political opponents and unsuspecting civilians in order to intimidate and subjugate entire societies to their paranoid ideology. in the long run, the most effective way to fight jihadism is not to censor the internet, but to demonstrate continued respect for international law, especially by the major western countries. the starting point for the creation of the "islamic state" was the intervention of the "coalition of the willing" in iraq in 2003 in violation of the un charter and the "radicalization" of sunnis. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the member states and to take account of the views of the european parliament.
the commission mr president, the steel industry in greece and the rest of europe is facing enormous problems as the economy has been hit by the recent financial crisis. in recent years, 40 million tonnes of steel have been closed in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind, and i am sure that the commission will take appropriate measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind. the steel industry in greece, and the nickel-producing company larco, are facing a bleak future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the steel industry in greece, and it is therefore necessary to take measures to support employment and modernise the various greek steel industries, as well as larco and the other energy-intensive base metal industries.
the commission the kke condemns the criminal attack in paris and expresses its condolences to the families of the victims. isis is a criminal machine created, trained, equipped by the united states, nato and their allies. it is being used as a pretext to intensify repression, restrict people's freedoms, target immigrant refugees, and reinforce racism and xenophobia. the main question is who is exploiting and will then exploit the deadly kill shot. the european union is already promoting a new round of intensified repression against the peoples and imperialist intervention in the region with provisions and mechanisms that have been in place for some time, such as article 42. at the heart of the debate is the competition for energy in the middle east and africa, which is being contested by the united states and powerful european union states in competition with russia and china. the peoples must be on their guard. this is underlined by the dangerous downing of a russian plane by turkey under nato cover. no new imperialist intervention, no involvement of greece in the dangerous plans of the european union, the usa and nato.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are called today, out of respect for the victims of terrorism and out of responsibility to the citizens who sent us here, to take decisions. we must be organized, united, in solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let us organize the guarding of the external borders and let us decide on a transnational cooperation with the internet control and management companies, if you consider that on twitter alone today there are 14,000 jihadist profiles. the security of the citizen is not a matter of political perception or ideology, it is a matter of political decision. we have an obligation to ensure the freedom of the citizen, which is intertwined with his safety. terrorism came to instill fear and panic. the european response is that it has conquered the policy of open borders and the free movement of citizens and ideas. that's what we're gonna stay for, that's what we're gonna fight for.
the commission the tragic events in paris, for which we express our regret, were not sudden or without cause. it is the result of bad policy and mistakes made by all the countries of europe over time. for many years we have opened our borders to hundreds of thousands of legal and illegal immigrants. we give them citizenship very easily. we create multi-racial, multi-religious and multi-cultural societies, having the naivety to think that we can assimilate these people. this is not happening. we cannot give them the standard of living they want and this makes them feel hatred towards the societies that host them. but we are still constantly opening our borders and taking in thousands more illegal immigrants with dangerous jihadists inside. they are working with their existing allies and are succeeding in destroying the countries of the faithless west. let us therefore work together to confront this great threat to humanity and europe.
president. - the debate is closed. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the european parliament for giving me the privilege of addressing this house, which represents the peoples of the union. i rise at a particularly dramatic time for all of us. europe is wounded: brussels, copenhagen, london, madrid, paris are just as many painful and indelible wounds on the body of our union. we are still shocked by what happened in paris and we try to deal - all together - with the pain that has hit the families of the victims, the physical and moral suffering of the injured, the sense of anguish and insecurity of our communities. i would like to reiterate once again, and emphatically, our total and unconditional solidarity with france, its institutions, its people, and in particular with the families affected by this immense tragedy. yesterday, as president schulz has just mentioned, we said goodbye to valeria solesin in venice, an italian girl, a european girl, whose young life was cut short, brutally, along with that of 129 other people. i would like to join the memory of valeria solesin with the memory of this day for the elimination of violence against women. in paris, our daily lives were affected, our concept of being together, our habits: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. this year we commemorated the 70th anniversary of the end of world war ii and last year the 100th anniversary of the beginning of world war i. two tragedies from which, through immense suffering, the idea of a europe that knew how to unite rather than fight was born, grew and took root. the european union is the result of this long and vital process which is still in progress and is the progressive integration which has enabled our fellow europeans to live through a period of peace and social, cultural and economic development unique in the history of our continent. a story that has produced rights and increased protections for all. the europe you represent was born of solidarity, of former enemies who were able to unite in the name of common values, of countries that were adversaries in the cold war and which have been able to create, in recent years, the largest area of democracy and freedom that has ever existed, making a decisive contribution to stability and peace. but that is no longer enough. we are all being asked today, with arrogance, to take more responsibility, to take more initiative, to be more cohesive. only then can we overcome the arrogant challenges that terrorism brings into our own homes, after having bled the lands of the middle east, africa and asia, which are still gravely affected, as was the case last week in bamako and yesterday in tunis. the conflicts of the bipolar era have helped to keep european countries united. today, from the east and the south, new and strong instabilities have appeared on our borders. it is more than ever essential to promote together smart neighbourhood policies to share strategies for peacebuilding, isolating all extremism. the european union is, in the international context and in the collective imagination, a point of reference for every person, people or state whose existence is based on peace between nations, on freedom and respect for the rights of citizens. a political buffer against the dark. that is why they attack us head-on, as the united states of america has done. i address a parliamentary assembly which represents the people of europe and is also the guardian of the plurality of identities which enrich our european being: the battle we are engaged in is not a short-term one, it requires unity. unity and determination to defeat all violence together and to guarantee the full security of our fellow citizens; the european parliament has a duty to protect the rights of citizens. the architecture of the european institutions is based on the values of democracy, tolerance and acceptance. in the face of the enormous migratory pressures coming from countries where terrorism is born and in the light of the dramatic events in paris, we are now asking ourselves whether it is not appropriate to question some of these principles, starting with the freedom of movement of persons. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the union are respected and that the rights of the citizens of the union are protected. i believe that we must face these challenges in the light of the values for which we declare ourselves to be fighting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ideal, because they force us to renounce the fundamental principles of our european identity, the rights we have built and which we have a duty to protect, for ourselves and for future generations. simplifications are not even persuasive in terms of lasting solutions, because the phenomena we are witnessing are global in nature and no country, however strong it may be, however proud it may be, as everyone is, of its history, is able to face them alone. during the second world war, democracies, starting with the united kingdom, did not ask themselves how to save themselves in isolation, but instead knew how to call for the greatest international mobilization of consciousness. today it is up to the european union to keep the helm of civilization and humanity steady. it is by effectively increasing cooperation between member states - from security apparatus to intelligence activities - that we will be able, together, to defeat terrorism, make our citizens safer and protect our way of life. only by working together more - not less - can we rise to this challenge, including in matters of common foreign and defence policy. we must not forget that 60 years of progressive integration, while respecting differences, specificities and traditions, have created a european demos: the european union is a growing fusion of our society which has produced tangible and visible results in terms of rights, protection, sensitivity, ways of living, from one end of the union to the other, from lapland to cyprus, from the danube delta to the algarve. a single european area of freedom, which we cannot lose but which, on the contrary, we must be able to extend, in the interests of security. the union has produced european law presided over by the court of justice which is part of the daily lives of our citizens in many areas: a common heritage they could no longer do without. and you, the legislators in this parliament, know that better than anyone. the voice of the european citizens, who have been calling for a fight against barbarism in recent days, has been a testimony to the urgent need for european unity. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an apparent paradox: on the one hand, we have seen the gradual emergence of this new european demos. the european union and its member states are showing fatigue, increasing difficulties in dealing with and resolving together the crises that have hit them. it was a success in the international financial crisis, which did not leave the sovereign debts of the states unscathed; the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union. in recent years, the need to look further has not always been a driving force, and if we can learn from this, we must give global solutions to global problems. the logic of the emergency, which has characterised the approach to crises in recent years, must be replaced by a long-term vision, which enables the union to devise policies capable of stimulating growth, creating jobs and reducing inequalities in a lasting way. this is the way to guarantee our citizens a prospect of economic and social progress and to ensure that europe plays a leading role in the world that is emerging. so, for example, with regard to monetary union, the report of the five presidents sets out a path along which, i hope, we can reach political and methodological convergence soon - because time is short - and defines the indispensable role of the european parliament in ensuring its democratic foundation. the institutions - and the european institutions are no exception - are strengthened if they are able to renew themselves, if they are able to understand what can be improved without succumbing to destructive or paralysing impulses. for example, on completing the single market or on more effective application of the principle of subsidiarity between the union and the member states. we must be able to make choices that are more united in all the areas in which we are involved. the free movement of persons, which is under pressure both from the phenomenon of migration and from the threat of terrorism, has as its logical corollary the strengthening of cooperation between the member states in safeguarding and managing the common external border and, in a second stage, in creating common institutions capable of managing migratory flows. only those who do not want to see can pretend not to know where the painful caravan of people coming from asia and the middle east, from africa to europe, comes from. they repeat the tragedy of the jews fleeing nazism; of the hundreds of thousands of prisoners of war who roamed europe in the aftermath of world war ii, looking for destroyed hearths; the refugees whose home communities had suddenly become part of another country. they are the heirs of those who risked their lives to tear down the berlin wall; the european parliament has been a major influence in the process of european integration. the world is on the move, on the feet of millions of women, children, men, often victims of cruel human traffickers: it is an unarmed army, marching in search of its own salvation. what can we say to counter their reasoning? it is not they, fleeing from death and violence, who are our enemy. they are heading towards europe, which is seen not only as a place of well-being but even more as a place of freedom, protection of rights and peace. we must defend europe's security, but we cannot distort it to make it less attractive. rather, europe as a whole needs to update its rules to deal with a phenomenon that is different in nature and scope from when the asylum rules were written. the dublin agreements are a snapshot of a reality and a past that no longer exists. that 's why they 're obsolete: overcome by reality that is an inflexible judge. the need is to define new rules based on the principles of humanity and security, solidarity and responsibility, and adapted to the new reality we are facing. the choice, in the final analysis - and not just in the field of migration - is, i repeat, also here, before you, the legislators of europe, between a union that confronts phenomena by trying to regulate them and a europe that suffers from events without being able to govern them, with the consequent increase in internal imbalances and in mistrust and mistrust between the member states. our values will assert their authenticity and consolidate their authority if they are recognised and admired for their acceptance and assistance to those in need. this message would help to put an end to the propaganda of hatred and death sown by fundamentalist terrorism in so many countries, from the middle east to africa and also - as the sad reality of these days reminds us - in the cities of europe. the meeting between the european union and african countries in valletta in recent weeks, as well as the ongoing diplomatic activities with turkey, have made some important first steps. we have defined strategies and made clear commitments. it is now a matter of honouring the offers of aid to the countries along the balkan and eastern mediterranean routes and of following up the commitments made with the african countries on development cooperation and mobility. it is right to help them, and this seems to be the only way to be perceived as credible partners and to be able to ask for greater cooperation on returns, to prevent migration flows from becoming even more massive and completely unstoppable in the near future, and also to prevent terrorism from finding new breeding grounds in other countries in difficulty. the need for a bigger and better europe is felt particularly strongly at this troubled time, also in the field of foreign policy. there is a process of increasing regionalization in the world. increasingly visible and structured macro-areas will be called upon to take responsibility for managing the planet's balances. it is a phenomenon which arises and develops from looking with appreciation - often with admiration - at our experience, at the model set up by the european union. the world needs europe and it needs a united europe. the european union must be able to complete its own organic design, and i am thinking here of the western balkans. the union can promote the international convergence needed for syria, iraq and libya by seeking shared choices that effectively counter the forces of disorder and terror. the tragic events of yesterday confirm the urgency of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting in may 2014, citizens have shown the inescapable need for a change of pace by the union's institutions, to overcome any delay in the indication of that horizon of values contained in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the union. i look at this house with great respect and great confidence. the european parliament has always played a leading role and italy is one of the supporters of this institution, convinced as it is of its essential role in the process of progressively deepening the political question of the european union and consolidating its democratic foundation. if the world is to look to the example of the european union to achieve similar forms of growing peaceful cooperation elsewhere, the european shipyard cannot remain half-way. we cannot look back, except to assess what we have left behind of the mistrust, rivalry, and opposition that, in the last century, have devastated us. planning for the future, starting from the difficulties and challenges we are experiencing, is the way to govern well even the present, with its so serious problems. i would like to remind you once again of jean monnet's statement: "we can't stop when the whole world is on the move". in the wake of this appeal, i wish you all the best of luck in your work for europe and peace. (parliament agreed to the request)
the commission i have asked to speak on a procedural matter this morning, but i understood that we had the serious matter of discussing criminal terrorist acts in paris. the question i want to raise concerns the way in which the bureau operates during the debates. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the report by mr de gucht, which i am sure will be followed by a number of other reports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the president announced that during the discussion of these two subjects there would be no catch-the-eye procedure. i confirmed this with him and he told me that he was sticking to the decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when i was outside the semicircle - away - i noticed, because i was watching the debate, that he finally changed the rules and proceeded to catch-the-eye on the last issue. i would therefore like to have an explanation of this matter, and above all, mr president, i would like to have clear terms of reference for the discussions at the beginning of the debate.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 approves the most rational allocation of the burden between the member states in the union budget. i voted in favour of this proposal, considering it to be correct, since the revision of the estimates, combined with the entry of new revenue in the budget, and the reduction of appropriations are signs of better budgetary management. at the same time, however, very important elements of the report are the emphasis on the need for significant additional financial means to deal with the current refugee crisis and the criticism that no compromise has been reached so far in the conciliation between the council and the european parliament to deal with the refugee crisis.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ stresses that significant additional financial means are needed to address the current refugee crisis, such as funding for the trust fund for africa, and syria. we believe that the institutions are wrong in their handling of the refugee crisis, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report because i believe that the institutions are wrong in their handling of the refugee crisis, since the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources and european data protection supervisor, because it is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ stresses that significant additional financial means are needed to address the current refugee crisis, such as funding for the trust fund for africa, and syria. we believe that the institutions are wrong in their handling of the refugee crisis, because the european citizen and his safety are not a priority.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this report, which strengthens a key institution for dealing with the migration and refugee crisis, but also for safeguarding the interests of european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the 'proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility mechanism for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis' will allow more funds to be released to better deal with the refugee problem, which is why i voted in favour. the european parliament resolution stresses the need to give more flexibility to the union's budget to deal with emergency crises, and this is where all our future efforts must be directed. taking measures to alleviate the migration and refugee crisis must be a priority for all of us.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ unused annual amounts available under the flexibility instruments of the financial years 2014 and 2015 should be used to address the refugee crisis. the european union has a long history of supporting the migration of refugees, and the european union has a long history of supporting the migration of refugees. countries like greece, which are unable to take care of their own citizens.
in writing. ‒ the the unused annual amounts available under the flexibility instruments of the financial years 2014 and 2015 should be used to address the refugee crisis. the amount of the loan is eur 1.5 billion. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union. countries like greece, which are unable to take care of their own citizens. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the report allows the mobilisation of flexibility instrument for extra expenditures concerning security and citizenship (in the field of migration) from 2016 until 2019. i support this report, therefore i voted in favour, although i wish there was an even stronger budgetary support especially for the countries that are badly hit from the economic crisis due to the continuous austerity measures.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility mechanism for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ unused annual amounts available under the flexibility instruments of the financial years 2014 and 2015 should be used to address the refugee crisis. the amount of the loan is eur 1.5 billion. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union. countries like greece, which are unable to take care of their own citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, along the lines of the majority in the committee on budgets and most political groups, contributing to a more effective response to the refugee crisis facing europe.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund is a positive step towards streamlining cooperation between member states and towards the sound management of the union's budgetary assets. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the expression of solidarity is one of the key elements of the european construction and the correct, rapid and smooth operation of the solidarity fund is essential. given the considerable assistance that member states can receive in emergency situations to deal with natural disasters, and the delays that usually occur until the final approval of the request for assistance, i voted in favour of this proposal, which provides for the mobilisation of eur 50 million for the payment of advances at the request of the affected member state.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity towards disaster-stricken regions in europe. the eu must be flexible when there are grounds for compensating member states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the eu must be flexible when there are grounds for compensating member states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the report recalls that the parliament's proposal for a decision is not linked to a specific disaster. it is intended to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide for the payment of advances in the event of a disaster, in the amount of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations. such mobilisation shall be carried out at the request of the country concerned and after a preliminary assessment by the commission. it is important to note that this is not only a rapid financial response, but also a political sign of solidarity with people affected by 'major natural disasters' or regional disasters. that is why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, in order to provide for the granting of advances in the 2016 budget, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity towards disaster-stricken regions in europe. the eu must be flexible when there are grounds for compensating member states affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr christophersen, which strengthens the spirit of solidarity in the union and improves the mechanism for providing assistance to eu citizens more directly and more quickly.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ a budget that allocates funds to the turkish occupation forces in the republic of cyprus and indirectly finances the increase in the number of illegal immigrants on the territory of the old continent cannot be described as european. the european union must change course now that it has time, because it will soon be too late.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ a budget that allocates funds to the turkish occupation forces in the republic of cyprus and indirectly finances the increase in the number of illegal immigrants on the territory of the old continent cannot be described as european. i therefore vote against the report. the european union must change course now that it has time, because it will soon be too late.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, adopted by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure, because it is not complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ a budget that allocates funds to the turkish occupation forces in the republic of cyprus and indirectly finances the increase in the number of illegal immigrants on the territory of the old continent cannot be described as european. the european union must change course now that it has time, because it will soon be too late.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this initiative by the committee on budgets, in accordance with the decision of the conciliation committee, whose product is the text proposed.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the commission's implementing decision authorising uses of diethyl phthalate (2-ethylhexyl) ester, commonly known as dehp, essentially opposes the authorisation of the use of a dangerous substance which threatens the entire population on a daily basis. it has already been scientifically demonstrated that the use of dehp in a number of everyday products poses a risk to foetuses, newborn children and pregnant women. it also causes a number of endocrine disorders that often show up with a long delay. therefore, the authorisation of the use of this substance is against the objectives and basic principles of reach and we should support any initiative defending these principles. for all these reasons, i have decided to support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ positive, because the use of dehp and similar compounds causes endocrine activity disorders with direct consequences for human health.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i reject the report on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: granting authorisation for uses of diphthalyl di (2-ethylhexyl) ester (dehp) because the use of dehp and similar components causes endocrine activity disorders with direct consequences for human health.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to raise the issue of the dangers of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp), a substance commonly used as a plasticizer because of its adequate properties and low cost. scientific evidence indicates that it contains endocrine disrupting properties that produce adverse reproductive and health effects on newborns, women and workers. under the reach regulation, dehp is one of the first six compounds to be withdrawn from circulation. the resolution disapproves of the commission's measure authorising the use of the substance for 7 years as the measure will generalise the manufacture of consumer products made of recycled pvc containing dehp and will violate the reach regulation and the principles of the circular economy. that is why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission implementing decision to authorise uses of diphthalene (2-ethylhexyl) ester (dehp) under regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 of the european parliament and of the council, because it is complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ the use of dehp and similar compounds causes endocrine activity disorders with direct consequences for human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is widely accepted and supported by my colleagues in the committee responsible.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the taxe report contains some positive proposals for improving tax justice in europe and to some extent demonstrates the negative effects of the austerity policies followed in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although responsibility for tax dumping in europe has not been fully established, the report does not seek an extension of the current mandate and there is still no access to the necessary documents. the majority of private companies responded to the tip only after continuous calls, and there is still no possibility of creating a legal basis for imposing sanctions against private individuals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, it does not go one step further on the basic issues concerning taxe than what the european commission has already proposed. it is important that tax rulings be made public and that tax secrecy legislation be changed. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, which it has not yet adopted, and to the council, which it has not yet adopted.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the although the report contains many positive elements in terms of ensuring a fair tax system, in reality there are points and proposals for guidelines aimed at keeping large companies tax-avoiding and putting more tax burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises which are not networked like multinationals. the multinationals ignored calls for evidence requested by the ftc and it was not possible to establish a legal basis for sanctions. for all these reasons, and because the introduction of a common taxation throughout the union would constitute an unacceptable transfer of national sovereignty, i am voting against the report as a whole. the solution is to abolish the single market and to make it compulsory for companies to set up subsidiaries in the countries where they want to operate, which will be taxed locally.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the although the report contains many positive elements in terms of ensuring a fair tax system, in reality there are points and proposals for guidelines aimed at keeping large companies tax-avoiding and putting more tax burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises which are not networked like multinationals. the multinationals ignored calls for evidence requested by the ftc and it was not possible to establish a legal basis for sanctions. for all these reasons, and also because the introduction of a common taxation throughout the union would constitute an unacceptable transfer of national sovereignty, i am voting against the report as a whole. the solution is to abolish the single market and to make it compulsory for companies to set up subsidiaries in the countries where they want to operate, which will be taxed locally.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention for this report, because i am not in the position to support it even if some of our amendments were included in the report. one main problem is that this report does not give explanations on the political responsibilities of top eu officials. furthermore, the document was not accessible while many member states and multinational companies did not comply with information requested by the ep’s taxe committee. even if this report goes a step forward, i cannot fully support it.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the tax ruling and other measures of a similar nature or effect, because it is not sufficiently substantiated, and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/11/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the twelve have also called for the eu to be given a role in the international community, and to be able to play a role in the development of the world economy, in particular by promoting the development of the international financial system. the free movement of capital is enshrined in the treaties as the supreme principle and forms the basis of the 'legitimacy' of its tax privileges. references to reduced taxation of large groups are a challenge, as the whole result is driven by the anxiety to enhance the competitiveness/profitability of enterprises. it makes proposals for cooperation and exchange of information between tax authorities, and welcomes the fact that corporate tax rates in the eu fell from 35% to 23% between 1995 and 2014, and that corporate tax revenues for the 28 member states were only 2.6% of eu gdp, a sign of the extent of taxation on workers' incomes. that is why the monopolies and their power, backed by the eu and the bourgeois states, must be overthrown, so that the people can own the wealth they produce.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the although the report contains many positive elements in terms of ensuring a fair tax system, in reality there are points and proposals for guidelines aimed at keeping large companies tax-avoiding and putting more tax burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises which are not networked like multinationals. the multinationals ignored calls for evidence requested by the ftc and it was not possible to establish a legal basis for sanctions. for all these reasons, and also because the introduction of a common taxation throughout the union would constitute an unacceptable transfer of national sovereignty, we are voting against the report as a whole. the solution is to abolish the single market and to make it compulsory for companies to set up subsidiaries in the countries where they want to operate, which will be taxed locally.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax rulings, as it should put an end to tax competition that favours multinational companies. the loss of revenue for many countries is really enormous and there should be immediate initiatives at european level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax authorities are not forced to take any action to prevent the taxpayer from being taxed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by extremist/fundamentalist organisations must also include direct action. the fact that europe marginalizes multicultural communities means that we accept that we are wrong and not all those who, as guests, do not comply with the laws and do not respect the customs and traditions of the societies they wish to join. the schengen treaty is problematic, and the open borders policy and mass immigration are causing social unrest and posing a threat to security. the report does not advocate imposed solutions such as the closure of internal borders and the full reintroduction of border controls at national level. finally, instead of cutting off all cooperation, all aid and imposing sanctions on turkey, which is a source of migration, profits from smugglers and supports isis, the report proposes to strengthen cooperation with it.
in writing. ‒ this report is on the prevention of radicalisation of european citizens by terrorist organisation. the rapporteur made a lot of compromises; however some of gue/ngl red lines were not included in the report such as the request to enhanced control of eu's external borders or full cooperation with third countries. furthermore, i am also against the idea to recruit religious priests for pedagogical role in the prisons. even if the report tries to give a response on how to prevent radicalisation, i am not in the position to support it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations because it is not complete and well-documented and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/11/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report escalates the 'counter-terrorism hysteria' by focusing on the 'radicalization' that is the spearhead of the eu's 'counter-terrorism policy'. radicalism, from a concept associated with emancipation from bourgeois ideology and the struggle for social progress and change, is being transformed by the eu and bourgeois political personnel into a synonym for "terrorism" and "intolerance". it is confirmed that the real target of the "fight against terrorism" is not the criminal gangs of "jihadists" and other creations of the eu and its allies who armed and supported them as instruments of their imperialist plans, but the popular working class movement that fights against capitalist barbarity. to counter 'radicalization', it is proposed to strengthen the already gigantic network of repression (europol, sis, vis, 'european counter-terrorism centre') with new means: a special europol service for internet monitoring, a passenger electronic file (pnr), the exchange of personal data between intelligence services, open telephone lines inviting employees to become informants, the transformation of education into an instrument for the propagation of eu 'values' and teachers into catalysts for 'worrying positive change in the behaviour' of pupils! the peoples must fight to prevent the nightmare plan being prepared by the eu and governments to suppress their rights and struggles.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by extremist/fundamentalist organisations must also include direct action. the fact that europe marginalizes multicultural communities means that we accept that we are wrong, and not all those who, as guests, do not comply with the laws and respect the customs and traditions of the societies they wish to join. the schengen treaty is problematic, and the open borders policy and mass immigration are causing social unrest and posing a threat to security. the report does not advocate imposed solutions such as the closure of internal borders and the full reintroduction of border controls at national level. finally, instead of cutting off all cooperation, all aid and imposing sanctions on turkey, which is a source of migration, profits from smugglers and supports isis, the report proposes to strengthen cooperation with it.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the eu must unite to redress any security gap within itself. the defence of the freedom of citizens and their protection from any threat are fundamental values of the republic and therefore our priority. i have certainly voted in favour of this report, which sets out the conditions for effectively preventing and preventing the recruitment of european citizens into terrorist organisations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020 touches on a particularly important issue. every year more than 4000 workers in the european union die in an accident at work, and occupational diseases have increased dramatically in recent years. the resolution focuses on the right of workers to the highest level of protection in the field of health and safety at work and calls for concrete measures to reverse the effects of the economic crisis by providing assistance to companies seeking to improve safety and health at work. the report makes special reference to the adverse effects of precarious employment on occupational health and safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the negative impact of unsafe work on the health and safety of workers in europe demonstrates the need for a targeted approach to improve the health and safety situation of these workers, and the need to improve the collection of comparable data on occupational diseases and exposure to hazardous agents and to identify good prevention practices becomes urgent. we disregard this report as many workers are still exposed to asbestos at their workplace, so it is important to improve the protection of workers from exposure to carcinogens and mutagens as well as ergonomic risk factors, and new initiatives are needed at eu level and better integration of weee into other policy areas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the negative impact of unsafe work on the health and safety of workers in europe demonstrates the need for a targeted approach to improve the health and safety situation of these workers, and the need to improve the collection of comparable data on occupational diseases and exposure to hazardous agents and to identify good prevention practices becomes urgent. i am voting against this report, as many workers are still exposed to asbestos at their workplace, so it is important to improve the protection of workers from exposure to carcinogens and mutagens, as well as ergonomic risk factors, and new initiatives are needed at eu level and better integration of the weee into other policy areas.
in writing. ‒ this report emphasises the right of all workers to protection in the field of health and safety at work. although the eu policy framework contains a large number of important areas for action, additional measures are needed to achieve a higher level of protection: improved implementation of the european objectives at national level, increased support for smes in achieving these objectives, increased involvement of the social partners and labour inspectors, recovery from the effects of the economic crisis and new forms of precarious work. that is why i voted for it.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020 because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the health and safety of workers is treated as a 'cost' to be reduced or as an 'investment with a positive effect on the productivity and competitiveness of companies', according to the report on the subject discussed in the european parliament and voted against by the kke group. the report provocatively states that it is in the interests of companies to take safety measures, as otherwise they will be called upon to pay the costs of occupational accidents and diseases. the report also cynically calls for these safety measures to be affordable, that is to say, cheap, and affordable to companies that can even cover their costs with european funding. it is revealing that the prevention of occupational accidents is part of the strategy for 'active and healthy ageing', i.e. to ensure that workers work until old age, reducing the gap between retirement age and death. the conclusion is obvious: as long as corporations hold the keys to the economy, workplace health and safety will be sacrificed on the altar of their profitability. the workers need to demand safety and health measures and permanent staffing by organising their struggle for an economy and power that will be judged by the needs of the people and not by capitalist profit.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the negative impact of unsafe work on the health and safety of workers in europe demonstrates the need for a targeted approach to improve the health and safety situation of these workers, and the need to improve the collection of comparable data on occupational diseases and exposure to hazardous agents and to identify good prevention practices becomes urgent. we disregard this report as many workers are still exposed to asbestos at their workplace, so it is important to improve the protection of workers from exposure to carcinogens and mutagens as well as ergonomic risk factors, and new initiatives are needed at eu level and better integration of weee into other policy areas.
in writing. ‒ health is an inalienable right of workers. in every profession, in every workplace, safety rules must be observed without compromise. the report by the committee on employment and social affairs stresses, among other things, the need to respect both the relevant eu strategic framework and national frameworks for the benefit of european citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the findings of the latest and most comprehensive pan-european survey on violence against women to date, carried out by the european agency for fundamental rights, demonstrate that this shameful form of violation of women's fundamental rights continues to take on various forms and a vast scale in all countries of developed europe. at the same time, it is a largely underreported crime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the most comprehensive legal instrument in international law to date, is essential. europe must include the issue of combating gender-based violence in all its new policies and strategies for gender equality - in the fields of employment, education, health and new technologies. we have an obligation as the european parliament to find more ways to encourage women victims of violence to speak up and to bring perpetrators to justice, especially in the countries of southern europe where the failure to report violence is particularly high.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the results of the europe-africa summit in malta on migration and the g20 summit in attaleia on global development were poor. both ended in general declarations and wish lists without specific commitments due to the disagreements of the participating states. the only practical result was the informal summit, just after the malta summit, which gave turkey a contribution of eur 3 billion from the european union and the member states to meet the needs of the large number of syrian refugees on its territory. it was a justified decision, given the circumstances, since turkey hosts some two million refugees and their maintenance is a heavy economic burden. however, yesterday's development of the downing of the russian plane by turkish air force reinforces in retrospect the suspicions that exist about turkey's role in the syrian problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. but if the islamic state is not defeated, it is impossible to bring peace to syria and to end the refugee drama. europe must deal more firmly with the semi-authoritarian erdogan regime that is acting as a troublemaker in the region.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. listing problems doesn't necessarily mean you know how to solve them. talking doesn't mean you're ready to accept or even enforce policies. to declare that you are in favor of legal migration flows, human rights and freedoms, but to close your borders and put your country at high risk levels by imposing a multitude of bans, shows a disconnect between words and deeds. calling putin into military cooperation against isis, but recognizing sanctions against russia shows you're insane. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of democratization in the balkans, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of democratization in the balkans. the threat is not from nationalist, patriotic parties, but from ostrich-like behaviour, patriotism - when it suits us - and your idealism.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, thank you very much and because you have also made a greek introduction, i must tell you that the handling of the crisis appeal by the european union is also described by a greek word, common to most european languages: hypocrisy. it is hypocritical to maintain the dublin agreement; it is hypocritical to say that frontex is monitoring europe's external borders. it is hypocritical not to acknowledge that refugees come from wars in which we are participating or in which we are provoking them. it is hypocritical for the g20 to meet in turkey to deal with terrorism and refugees and not to talk about turkey's role in this matter. it is hypocritical to justify the downing of the russian plane by turkey because it violated turkish airspace, when turkish aircraft violate greek airspace on a daily basis and mrs merkel proposes joint patrols. it is hypocritical that 160,000 refugees were decided to be relocated and all that was done was a bad propaganda campaign involving mr schulz, mr avramopoulos and the prime minister to relocate thirty, i repeat thirty, refugees from athens to luxembourg. but commissioner, as mr brecht said, when hypocrisy gets bad, then you have to tell the truth.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, commissioner, in the last six months, more than 25 meetings of european and international institutions have been held on refugees and the fight against terrorism. what is the result? the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and it is also a political union of the peoples of europe. the european refugee policy has failed. at the same time, your strategic ally in the region, turkey, is blackmailing the refugees and shooting down russian planes, playing dangerous games of destabilization in the region. the poor results of the valletta conference portend exactly the same failure, commissioner. ambition and audacity, but with a purpose behind it. you do not hesitate to cooperate even with authoritarian regimes such as sudan and eritrea in order to reduce the flows of migrants they have caused and you insist on readmission when this parliament has passed resolutions condemning these regimes. i am sorry, but i believe and fear that in january we shall be discussing exactly the same thing.
the commission mr president, the situation in burundi is endangering the lives of thousands of citizens in that african country. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. among the thousands of prisoners is greek national spyros richard haghaibimana. mr schmit, in my speech in this chamber on 9 september, i informed mrs mogherini of the unjust imprisonment of mr spyros and asked her to intervene in his release. i have also written to mrs mogherini on this subject on 15 september. despite my continuous interventions for the release of spyros haghaibimana, despite the intense protests on the internet of thousands of citizens calling for his release, spyros remains in prison illegally. do you know why spiros was imprisoned, mr. schmit? why did he not, as a burundian police officer, agree to fire on the demonstrators on 28 july? i therefore call on you to call for the european union to intervene immediately to secure the release of spyros, because his life is in danger.
the commission mr president, the people of myanmar in the elections of 8 november decided to end the domination of the military and the junta that had ruled the country for the last twenty-five years. millions of citizens participated en masse in the general election and gave aung san suu kyi victory. the nobel peace prize winner who has been persecuted by the burmese junta. but the new democratic government faces significant challenges. first of all, the military must stop holding twenty-five per cent of the seats in parliament. secondly, we must abolish censorship. at the same time, forced labour, racism and human rights violations must be eliminated. the european union must stand by the new democratic government of myanmar, but that government must also ensure the protection of the ethnic and religious minorities living in the country, such as the rohingya, against whom discrimination and oppression by the buddhists continue, as i have repeatedly denounced in this chamber.
the european union considers georgia to be a pioneer in the eastern neighbourhood policy and supports its territorial integrity and the cessation of the conflict in the breakaway provinces of abkhazia and south ossetia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. russia has been, and remains, an important strategic partner for the european union. this reality has been emphatically demonstrated in the current period when cooperation with russia is essential to combat isis. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of the region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, relations between the european union and georgia are particularly important because georgia is an important factor in the security of the caucasus region. the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and we are convinced that the european union will continue to play a leading role in this process. the eastern partnership must be primarily aimed at strengthening the european union's economic relations with the respective states and, of course, with georgia. it should aim to ensure the union's energy security, to build mutually beneficial relations, and to enhance trade in goods and services. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is a political entity, and that it is not a political entity. the european union is committed to the development of the region and to the development of the region's economy, and the european union is committed to the development of the region's economy. only under these conditions can the political situation in georgia develop positively in view of the elections to be held in 2016, for the conduct of which the plurality and the rights of the opposition must be ensured.
the commission the situation in moldova is very serious. at a time when huge economic problems have been created in the country, when corruption is casting a heavy shadow over the political system, when over a billion euros have literally magically disappeared from the banking system and been transferred abroad, when the political crisis after the government's overthrow is lingering, there is now a serious risk that moldova will be plunged into violent internal conflicts between the two major political blocs that dominate the country. on the one hand, those who want a closer relationship with the european union through the eastern partnership, and on the other hand, those who want to see their future looking eastwards. the european union must help consolidate democracy, crack down on corruption and smuggling, but without interfering in the internal political situation and party rivalries in moldova. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, and it must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict.
the commission mr president, it is estimated that 65 million children live in emergency conditions and 37 million are deprived of basic education because of adverse living conditions. the fact that so many children are deprived of education indicates that there are violations of basic human rights in countries experiencing crises. this is true in african countries, and it is even more true in the refugee camps in jordan, lebanon and the syrian-turkish border. the lack of education is also a problem in developed countries such as greece, which is experiencing austerity and memorandum policies and where the budget for education is increasingly reduced. moreover, greece is witnessing a dramatic deterioration in children's living conditions, and child poverty is now having an impact on education, having increased by over fifty percent since 2008. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one.
the commission the commission's proposal for a regulation on the control of the use of the financial system by the member states of the european union is a very good one. this is reflected in the fact that the accounts of the european union are not reliable. we must be more careful in the management and control of european funds. we need to change the practice of mindless spending just to absorb funds. we need to focus more on results and compliance with the rules so that in the medium to long term there is sufficient funds available in the budget of the european union. in areas such as regional policy, energy, transport, the environment and fisheries, the funds are managed jointly by the commission and the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must monitor and sanction fraud, inadequacy and waste. for example, if a small and mediumsized enterprise, which is owned by a larger one, receives payments from european funds as a small and mediumsized enterprise, then we are talking about fraud and not about a breach of the rules. such practices must be stopped so that european taxpayers are not burdened.
the commission madam president, the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2014 touches on a number of important issues. first, it calls for a fundamentally new approach to the management of european union investment and expenditure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. secondly, it is necessary to concentrate european union funds on cutting-edge areas such as job creation, support for farmers and small and mediumsized enterprises, as well as support for social and territorial cohesion. thirdly, there is a need for better management and control of the way european funds are allocated, especially when the court of auditors' own report reveals that the error rate for expenditure was in the order of 4.4%. the controls against fraud and misappropriation of funds, as well as those on amounts which should not have been paid, should therefore be strengthened. so, control and transparency everywhere.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, these senseless killings in afghanistan may amount to war crimes. these are not my words, but the statement of the un special mission that went to the region about two weeks ago. we in europe, therefore, must respond to what the un says and recognize the status of refugees from war zones for people who are fleeing afghanistan to save themselves and their children, as well as for people who are fleeing to avoid being confronted by the paranoid isis from syria. the europe of democracy, freedom and human rights cannot discriminate against the victims of war and terrorism on the basis of their nationality. we must therefore contribute to peace initiatives and development aid, but also ensure that the afghans are granted refugee status in accordance with the un provisions.
the commission madam president, the situation in afghanistan is acute as armed conflict increases and daesh spreads its tentacles in collaboration with the taliban, culminating in the massacres of the khazars. at the same time, we have the loss of innocent people, as in the bombing of the doctors without borders hospital in contuz. the united states has admitted to this action, but yesterday it was ruled to be a mistake. in these circumstances, afghanistan is in danger of becoming a refugee bomb. already one and a half million afghan refugees are in pakistan and another four hundred and fifty thousand are in iran, while more than 20% of the people who have flooded greece in recent months, as well as the other european countries, come from afghanistan. so, in order not to find ourselves in the same situation as the syrian refugee flow, we must strengthen the stability and economic development of afghanistan, and the nato countries which are conducting military operations in afghanistan must take over the hosting of afghan refugees, as must china, russia and iran, which are neighbouring afghanistan.
the commission madam president, in cambodia the hun sen regime, which has been in power for over thirty years, has human rights violations on the agenda. the same applies to the lack of pluralism and the silencing and persecution of opposition. at the same time, the armed forces and security forces are acting unchecked to suppress demonstrations and strikes. in the economic field the country is plagued by poverty, although cambodia is a rich country with mines, timber, oil, but the cambodian people have not reaped the revenues from the exploitation of the country's natural resources. with corruption and political and business entanglements as the main elements, 45% of the country's land has been given to so-called investors, while since 2003 some four hundred thousand people have been evicted from their land and 14% of the total land has been lost to small farmers. in view of the development aid the european union is giving to cambodia, pressure must be put on the restoration of democracy.
the commission madam president, freedom of expression has been a conquest of european civilization for many centuries. this conquest, however difficult it may be for some to understand, is neither given nor, in many cases, desired in some parts of the world. but as much as this bothers us, we should deal with the european union before we deal with bangladesh. because, especially in recent years, this right has been sacrificed on the altar of political correctness, under the mantle of which many laws now restrict free expression. moreover, where laws are not enough, quasi-state structures take on the role of suppressing the free expression of ideas. you remember very well how some reacted, for example, when a magazine published cartoons of muhammad. the repression of expression has been taken up by the terrorists at charlie hebdo, as well as in the recent heinous attacks in the french capital. it should be noted that these terrorists have many sympathizers, both in bangladesh and in other muslim countries of the world. moreover, hypocrisy abounds in the union when you talk about freedom of expression, but at the same time you are working perfectly with regimes that are proven to censor their citizens, very often and with brute force, such as saudi arabia and turkey. so let's protect freedom of expression in europe and then let's deal with the rest of the world.
madam president, i would like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution, which i am happy to support. it is a fact that the situation in bangladesh is deteriorating significantly. the situation is uncomfortable, but unfortunately it's getting worse. it was about how journalists and bloggers are being attacked. in short, the basic right of democracy, the right to freedom of speech, is suppressed in bangladesh. and not just by radical islamic terrorist groups, but unfortunately by the government itself. i therefore urge and join the words spoken here against the commission that the bangladeshi government be kept constantly informed of this in its dealings with the institutions of the european union. that there is no way that an independent journalist, blogger can be jailed for criticizing a government minister on his facebook profile. that it is not possible for the criminal law to contain a section 57 where there are factual matters that more or less prevent the free criticism of the government. until the government of bangladesh respects democracy, it cannot be supported.
the commission mr president, in bangladesh the security forces and the famous rapid action brigade are a state within a state. they violate human rights, use violence, are accused of disappearing dissidents, persecute journalists, bloggers and trade unionists, all under the pretext of protecting the interests of the state and national ideology. but what is the european union doing? it is turning a blind eye to this brutal violation of human rights and the social exploitation and impoverishment of the people of bangladesh. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the agreement allows european multinationals to profit unchecked, having set up their factories in bangladesh, which operate by employing workers without social security, on hunger wages, without respecting labour rights and health and safety conditions, with the result that we have continuous fires and hundreds of fatal accidents at work, as we have repeatedly denounced in this chamber, madam commissioner.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report aims to free the markets from all kinds of barriers and controls, but this will have disastrous consequences for european citizens. the wto seeks to impose its views on every aspect of society, from the management of public administration, to tax policy, education, social policies and institutional reforms. we are clearly opposed to world trade based on implementation and the imposition of binding obligations for it and we are voting against the motion for a resolution on the current state of the doha development agenda in view of the 10th wto ministerial conference.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the aim of this report is to free the markets from all obstacles and controls, which will have disastrous consequences for european citizens. the wto seeks to impose its views on every aspect of society, public administration, tax policy, education, social policies and institutional reforms. i am clearly opposed to world trade based on implementation and the imposition of binding obligations for this and i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the current state of the doha development agenda in view of the 10th wto ministerial conference.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the state of play of the doha development agenda. on this subject, gue/ngl is against plurilateral agreements and trade deals such as ttip and tisa. i advocate reforming the wto instead of establishing new trade agreements. all gue/ngl amendments were rejected since they are defending a multilateral and international approach. i voted against this resolution, since the resolution does not reinforce a fair trade system, neither does it implement and promote social and development rights.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the current state of play of the doha development agenda in view of the 10th wto ministerial conference, because it is not complete and well documented.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to free markets from all kinds of barriers and controls, but this will have disastrous consequences for european citizens. the wto seeks to impose its views on every aspect of society, public administration management, tax policy, education, social policies and institutional reforms.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution a few weeks before the relevant ministerial meeting in kenya. the text also provides for the need to clarify the relevant definitions for the categorisation of states as emerging economies and low-income countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas:
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because such agreements that include ecuador in the world trade system automatically weaken its position and make this state dependent on the policy of international capital.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the trade agreement between the eu, columbia and peru. this trade agreement will of course benefit ecuador both on its exports and imports. the eu will have to ensure the effective application of the trade agreement. however, i cannot fully support this motion for a resolution, since the measures for cooperation in education, fair trade, sustainable development, training and creating socioeconomic opportunities are not enough. therefore, i voted abstention.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, because it is not complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ agreements that integrate ecuador into the world trade system automatically weaken its position and make this state dependent on the policy of international capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which makes it clear that ecuador fulfils the necessary conditions for accession to the agreement. in addition, the european parliament has taken account of political, social and environmental issues which are being promoted and should be further strengthened by the government of the country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the resolution proposal concerns the implementation of a new strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the period 2016-2020, in order to ensure the continuity and clarity of the operations necessary to achieve positive developments in eu animal welfare policy. we are voting against the proposal as a whole, as we are in favour of a ban on the import and marketing of cloned animals within the union and of the application of official controls to ensure the stability and predictability of investment in the sector, while ensuring health. finally, the motion for a resolution itself notes the concern regarding the effective implementation and enforcement of existing eu legislation on animal welfare, but stresses that improving the implementation and compliance with existing legislation should be a key objective for all animal health and welfare rules.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the proposal as a whole, as i am in favour of a ban on the import and marketing of cloned animals within the union and i believe that official controls should be applied to ensure the stability and predictability of investment in the sector, while ensuring health. finally, the motion for a resolution itself points out the concern regarding the effective implementation and enforcement of existing eu legislation on animal welfare, but stresses that improving implementation and compliance with existing legislation should be a key objective for all animal health and welfare rules.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the new animal welfare strategy 2016-2020 because it is comprehensive and well-founded, and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 23/11/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the power to adopt the directive on the protection of the environment by means of a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the aim behind the 'sensitivity' for animals is to develop 'attractive' products - foodstuffs which will enhance 'the efficiency and competitiveness of livestock production' for the industry's monopolies. the logic of the report and the proposals and amendments made in its framework, using the standards which serve the interests of monopolies in the transport, placing, breeding and slaughter of animals, are designed to exclude small and medium-sized farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. in the face of these developments and in conflict with the cap, the poor and middle-class farmers, alongside the working class and the other popular strata, must fight for a path of development in which the agricultural economy, livestock production and the other sectors of the economy will develop in a balanced way, based on the satisfaction of popular needs and not capitalist profit, with a break from the eu.
in writing. ‒ there should be a ban on the import and marketing of cloned animals within the union and official controls should be applied to ensure the stability and predictability of investments in the agricultural sector, while ensuring health.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and prolonged crises raises a matter of grave importance. an estimated 65 million children are affected by emergencies, while 37 million children are out of school due to prolonged crises. the resolution stresses the catalytic role that education can play in development. in particular, quality education can be a key element in rebuilding post-conflict societies and helping children break out of the cycle of poverty. however, an amendment which i co-signed and which stressed the crucial importance of public funding and public planning of education in order to ensure universal access for all was rejected at the vote and i therefore abstained from the final vote.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ education, and in particular high-quality public education, is a catalyst and a basis for reducing unemployment and poverty, for growth and economic recovery. but the recognition that humanitarian aid is needed in countries that have suffered wars and disasters is not enough unless it is accompanied by the recognition that the eu should not finance actions aimed at providing relief to countries that have been destroyed by the policies of vested interests, mainly western countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ education, and in particular high-quality public education, is a catalyst and a basis for reducing unemployment and poverty, for growth and economic recovery. but the recognition that humanitarian aid is needed in countries that have suffered wars and disasters is not enough unless it is accompanied by the recognition that the eu should not finance actions aimed at providing relief to countries that have been destroyed by the policies of vested interests, mainly western countries. i therefore vote against the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and prolonged crises because it is sufficiently substantiated and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 25/11/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ education, and in particular high-quality public education, is a catalyst and a basis for reducing unemployment and poverty, for growth and economic recovery. but the recognition that humanitarian aid is needed in countries that have suffered wars and disasters is not enough unless it is accompanied by the recognition that the eu should not finance actions aimed at providing relief to countries that have been destroyed by the policies of vested interests, mainly western countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ there are many organisations and ngos around the world that focus their humanitarian action and assistance on children. today, some ten million children worldwide are refugees, while nearly nineteen million have been displaced by armed conflict. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: i have supported the report with my vote in favour.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are countries, like my own greece, where community resources are the only source of fresh money. what can we do about it? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the common provisions will reduce the time between the submission of the application and the granting of the funding. we must do everything we can to speed up the process of returning money to the beneficiaries. you know, even in greece we are struggling to absorb the resources of the previous community framework, 2009-2013, and 2014 has not yet started to be absorbed. we need to help. we can cut through the red tape and get to the resources we're entitled to.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the introduction of detailed guidelines on simplification matters is important because it guides the member states and regions to eliminate and/or drastically reduce administrative burdens, especially in cases of control of actions, project selection and public expenditure. this simplification is extended proportionally to the control and reporting of activities, the application and reporting of expenditure related to european financial programmes and the reduction of the time taken to apply for and receive funds, through the use of electronic applications and digital platforms.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the introduction of detailed guidelines on simplification matters is important because it guides the member states and regions to eliminate and/or drastically reduce administrative burdens, especially in cases of control of actions, project selection and public expenditure. this simplification is extended proportionally to the control and reporting of activities, the application and reporting of expenditure linked to european financial programmes and the reduction of application-disbursement times through the use of electronic applications and digital platforms. i therefore vote against the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on simplification and performance-based guidance in cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 because it is comprehensive and well-founded, and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 27/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the introduction of detailed guidelines on simplification matters is important because it guides the member states and regions to eliminate and/or drastically reduce administrative burdens, especially in cases of control of actions, project selection and public expenditure. this simplification is extended proportionally to the control and reporting of activities, the application and reporting of expenditure linked to european financial programmes and the reduction of application-disbursement times through the use of electronic applications and digital platforms.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution of the committee on regional development which improves the mechanisms for enhancing the effectiveness of cohesion policy in the eu for the 2014-2020 programming period.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the blue card. mr president, i can see that you are very keen to accuse greece of 'not' meeting its obligations. have you considered the responsibilities of your own country, not only in creating this problem, but in dealing with it? have you considered that you, who are supposed to be able to deal with the situation, as soon as you faced the first reaction of the people closed your borders? have you considered your responsibilities in supporting turkey when you do not ask turkey, which is sending waves of illegal immigrants to greece, to keep them there, when you do not ask for checkpoints to be set up there so that migrants are checked there and do not come to greece and the rest of europe?
the commission madam president, after repeating what mr weber and mr verhofstadt have said in this chamber about greece, which is not substantial, the european union, together with these two gentlemen and the others, is really showing its true face. we want to give money and start the preparatory work for the opening of a number of chapters concerning the accession process, in a country that cooperates with isis, in a country that shoots down a warplane that fights jihadists, under the pretext of violating - listen, listen - 17 seconds of its national airspace, while no one apologizes for its violations against greece. it is a very serious matter, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to be consulted. it is enriching itself by using smugglers and slave traders, at the expense of syrian refugees, drowning them at sea, to usurp, with the blessings of germany, through the so-called search and rescue, the national sovereignty of greece in the aegean. it is not a serious policy unless we want to deliberately dismantle the member states of the union, to disrupt their social cohesion and to ignite a new and destructive war... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the events in the former yugoslavia. my country is carrying a heavy burden of refugees with humanity, because it is on the european frontier and because several european countries refuse to take up their share. my country says 'yes' to european cooperation to protect europe's external borders and to defend the schengen treaty, without violating the rules of national sovereignty, as every member state says, and mr verhofstadt, who was also a former belgian prime minister, can explain to us how belgium, which has no border with such countries, has become a centre of terrorist activity. if you want results, put a stop to the mafia of smuggling from turkey to greece, organize the direct transport of refugees from turkey to all european countries, proportionately, create a european land corridor. the common framework between the european union and turkey, madam president, is a positive step, but it is not a wish list and strong control mechanisms must be set up. turkey will only receive the 3 billion if it fully implements all its commitments... (the president interrupts the speaker) (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i agree with the observation, it wasn't a question. what i want to stress, once again, is that europe, if it wants to protect european borders and the terms of the schengen treaty, must give additional technical assistance and organizational assistance and money, and to greece, which bears a heavy burden of refugees, with humanity and solidarity, because that is where history and geography have put us. we are not lucky enough to be either the netherlands or luxembourg.
the commission the european union's leadership is proving to be deficient, madam president, as it is continually succumbing to turkish blackmail. a turkey that fuels daes and smuggles oil with the jihadists. a turkey that is organizing the slave trade of transporting thousands of refugees from syria to the aegean islands for a profit of over twelve billion euros. a turkey that continues to violate greek airspace. finally, ladies and gentlemen of the european union, you have put the wolf in the fold, and not only that: you are also giving ankara three billion euros. mr weber, greece has been flooded with thousands of refugees because mrs merkel invited them to come to germany. mr weber, greece is a sovereign country and will not accept co-management of its external borders. mr weber, make up your mind, greece's borders are greek and will continue to be protected by greek troops and not by german troops, as you dream, because that has been historically and irrevocably overturned for 70 years.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is hypocritical to applaud measures which create camps for millions of the unfortunate, only to avoid taking on the historical responsibilities which they impose on us. the european union of 28 states and 500 million citizens refuses to take in three million refugees, some of whom have created them, and shifts the responsibility for its deadlocked policy to the host countries. the solidarity you preach is a farce, because the famous relocation of 160,000 refugees has been applied to only 159 people. you create a generation of prisoners because you know that this situation will not be temporary. but do you wonder what such a ghettoization will do to turkey, lebanon and jordan? i tell you: it will be the breeding ground for extreme and fanatical ideologies which will only perpetuate the present problems. the european union has a duty to help the refugees, and i am sure that the european union will do so. this shortsighted policy of the european union will only cause problems and instability in the region.
the commission madam president, the panic that has gripped the european union, combined with its inability to deal with the problem of the mass influx of illegal immigrants into the union, has forced it to deify turkey and give it everything, in return for a controversial aid. but we forget that turkey is the country which is solely responsible for all this influx of illegal immigrants coming to greece and europe, we forget that turkey is blackmailing us in order to achieve its national interests and i wonder: - what guarantees do we ask of turkey so that it does not deceive us again? - what guarantees do we ask of turkey to be 'in line', let me say, with its obligations towards the european union? - do we have the courage to force turkey to ban the activities of the smugglers? - do we have the courage to force turkey to stop exploiting these unfortunate people to make a few billion ? if we don't have that courage we can't do anything at all... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the recent eu-turkey summit on refugees took many decisions in favour of turkey, although the country has not so far proved to be a reliable partner of the eu on a number of issues. in particular, it does not comply with the readmission agreements it has signed with the eu and greece, and has been shown to tolerate the uncontrolled activity of criminal networks of human trafficking on its territory, with hundreds of thousands of migrants being funneled to europe via turkey. at the same time, it continues to create conditions of tension and challenge of international law with continuous violations of the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus - eu member states - while not recognizing the republic of cyprus. why is the eu refusing to put institutional pressure on turkey to set up refugee reception centres on its shores, as part of its greater commitment to managing migration and preventing loss of life at sea? let us not forget that the already increased funding that turkey receives from the eu for this purpose is to be increased to eur 3 billion. why should we provide turkey with trade-offs for doing the obvious?
the commission madam president, european society is consuming renewable resources 50% faster than it can replace them, while the european union imports six times more materials and natural resources than it exports. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the circular economy package is essential in the face of the linear consumption system. in addition, the circular economy should also bring economic benefits, and it will do so if we implement it by 2030, when it will reduce costs by 600 billion euros a year. the overall benefits will amount to eur 1.8 trillion, create 2 million jobs and increase the european union's competitiveness on the world market. finally, in order to achieve the 2030 targets, emphasis should be placed on innovation, research, science to promote the circular economy model.
gue/ngl), in writing. the ongoing debate on the transition to a circular economy model is more crucial than ever. as concerns about environmental conditions are a constant theme and as the deadlock in the european and global economy continues, the need to improve the way in which countries and businesses develop and to take any action that can protect the environment is becoming apparent. the clear environmental protection objectives, through the reduction of pollutant emissions, better waste management and recycling of products, confirm the importance of the transition to a circular economy. however, this model is inextricably linked to radical changes in the structure of both our economy and society as it requires the acceptance of a different production model, which will directly affect smes and workers, possibly leading to job losses. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the manufacturing sector will need a considerable transition period in order to move beyond the current conception of the economy, which includes outdated and environmentally harmful structures.
the commission frontex, one of the european union's flagship enforcement mechanisms, is being reinforced by the rapid response force 'rabit' to deal with tortured refugees and migrants as invaders. according to numerous complaints, frontex is responsible for inhuman treatment, obstructing the rescue of human lives trying to escape the fires of the wars being ignited in their countries by the european union and its allies, the united states and nato. the report's proposals for a mechanism whereby the accused frontex itself would 'allegedly' check complaints against it are a mockery. the call by frontex for the protection of the borders, especially the greek land and sea borders, in agreement with the syriza-anel government, poses serious risks to the country's sovereign rights, linked to the bargaining and competition between the greek bourgeoisie and the turkish bourgeoisie for geopolitical influence in the region. we demand the abolition of the european union's repressive mechanisms such as frontex and the schengen agreement, and we call for human reception and accommodation centres, as well as the immediate transfer of refugees and migrants to their countries of destination ... (the president interrupts)
the proposal of the european ombudsman to set up a personal complaints office would be correct if all the parameters were taken into account. when we legislate as a parliament, we must take account of fundamental rights and the particularities, gender, religion, etc., of immigrants. but we must not ignore the reality: frontex is an agency which, by virtue of its composition and its operational capacity, is unable to cope with migratory flows. here, entire member states are building fences and reintroducing border controls to stem the waves of migrants. imagine that, of the 2 million migrants expected, if even 10,000 voiced a complaint, true or false, the system would collapse. instead of dealing with the recording and providing assistance, which is the main mission of frontex, we will be caught up in a barrage of investigations, legal details, language difficulties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen area is not affected by the illegal immigration of third-country nationals. the only way to solve the problems is to shield the structures. we need to recruit skilled personnel, better training, adequate materials.
ecr), in writing. the european ombudsman's report clearly and unequivocally states that frontex must respect and uphold human rights. at the same time, frontex and the eu must respect the national sovereignty of the member states of the union and in particular their exclusive and sovereign right to guard their borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my country, greece, cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the aegean islands are being flooded by the thousands of poor syrian refugees. and the european union, instead of solving the problem in the poverty-stricken greece of the memoranda, by distributing the refugees among all the eu member states based on the gdp, the population and the area of each country as i have repeatedly stressed, proceeds to finance turkey with 3 billion euros for the refugee issue, leaving greece to deal with the refugee flows on a small scale. the european union must therefore immediately set up hot spots in turkey, provide development aid to african countries to stop illegal immigration from there and finally step up efforts to find a peaceful solution to the syrian crisis.
the commission madam president, sustainable urban mobility projects are directly linked to the promotion of sustainable urban transport. given that 80% of europeans will soon be living in cities and that more than 30% of serious road traffic injuries occur in urban areas, it is necessary to ensure both accessibility to work and services for all and safety in citizens' mobility. in addition, the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of transport should be improved and the attractiveness of the urban environment in general increased. at the same time, the european union should support each local authority and increase funding for urban mobility to improve it. given that 40% of carbon dioxide emissions are caused by traffic problems in large cities, binding targets should be set to reduce the emissions caused.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on 'implementation and legacy of the european year of development' (2015/2994 ((rsp)).
the commission mr president, 2015 has been seen as the year of implementation of the european union's development objectives. the main objectives of the european year of development include combating discrimination and human rights violations, strengthening the rule of law and building fair and inclusive institutions. however, the european union does not seem to be promoting growth as much as it should in its member states. so for 2015-16, €18.8 billion is committed to increase competitiveness for jobs and growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as long as the debt of some member states of the union remains at current levels, it is impossible to achieve the objectives of the european year of development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, we are discussing today the development aid provided by the european union to the so-called third world in 2015, in which the theme for december was supposed to be 'the link between development and the protection of human rights'. all this sounds ironic, however, when just three days ago the european council gave economic and political rewards to the semi-authoritarian erdoğan regime in turkey, forgetting about the systematic violations of human rights. the unsolved mass murder of hundreds of peaceful protesters in ankara a few weeks ago, the murder of the president of the diyarbakir bar association a few days ago, the arrests of journalists for revelations about the erdoğan regime's funding of islamic state criminals, all forgotten to serve temporary expediencies. the turkish regime is marketing the refugee drama and the european union is pursuing a policy of appeasement, degrading its own code of values.
the commission mr president, since 2012 a directive has been proposed to have 40% of non-executive directors represent the under-represented sex in order to improve the under-representation of women on the boards of listed companies. the legislative pressure appeared to affect the representation rates of both genders, as in october 2015 there was a significant increase in the representation of women in listed companies, compared to 2010. so in 2010 it was 11.9% and today it's 21.2%. however, in most eu countries, the rates remain low, with the exception of france, germany and finland, where the rates are above 25%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. the decline in women's employment is thus evident in all sectors and not just in listed companies.
the commission mr president, we will soon be called upon to press the european commission to impose measures against hungary because it has been accused of violating fundamental principles of the european union, the rule of law and democracy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the whole case, methodology and procedure, apart from the purposes it serves, also shows the extent of the hypocrisy that pervades the european union. the european parliament is sensitive to some possible breaches of democracy and the rule of law by hungary and is provocatively indifferent when these breaches are occurring in an unquestionable manner in greece. how many times have i, myself and my fellow golden dawn meps denounced the greek government of the time, which had imprisoned without cause and illegally the leader, members of parliament and members of our party, the third political force in the country? when has the european parliament shown any sensitivity to the murders of two young supporters of our party, giorgos foudouli and manu kapellonis, and called with the same fervour for the arrest of their killers who have now been free for two years? when did the european parliament become moved and call for action when the heavy measures of the memorandum impoverished the greek people? now you ask us to consent to a conspiracy against a sovereign state... (the president interrupts)
the commission mr president, the huge wave of refugees that has hit the european union has highlighted its inherent contradictions. its leaders began a "dogfight" as no one wanted to take responsibility. but closing the borders is not going to reduce the refugee flows that western policy itself has caused. because it is the west that with its interventions has created this explosive situation in syria, iraq, libya and afghanistan. closing the borders diverts the flows elsewhere. so after hungary, slovenia, austria and germany have closed their borders. the european union has also been involved in the process of negotiating the accession of the new member states to the european union. in accordance with the decision of 23 september, the leaders decided on a clause for allocating refugees based on the size, population and gdp of the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission madam president, virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo is considered one of the most important parks in all of africa, with a rich biodiversity, and is also considered a unesco world heritage site as it has thousands of rare wildlife. however, in virunga, the democratic republic of congo, in violation of international conventions, has allowed the exploration and extraction of oil, gas, and other minerals, thus directly endangering the protection of the park and, by extension, the protection of the wildlife that lives there. at the same time, armed conflict and corruption are on the agenda, resulting in human rights violations in the area, culminating in the risk to life of the park's guards, one of whom was recently shot. the commission should therefore take immediate and multiple measures to protect the biodiversity of the park and to protect the animals at risk, and at the same time take initiatives to force the democratic republic of congo to comply with international requirements.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr weber's assertion that the refugee situation is problematic because 'allegedly' greece does not apply the schengen rules, and his recommendation for more border guards on the greek-turkish border are unrealistic. the truth is that the refugee flows do not come through land borders, but through maritime borders, which are practically impossible to seal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the turkish fleet, which is the main source of supply to the european union. instead of unjustly blaming greece, try to find a peaceful solution to the syrian problem so that the refugees can return to their homes.
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the masks fell off a few hours ago in this chamber. mr weber and mr verhofstadt have asked in the most open way for the limitation of greek sovereignty. they asked for troops from germany and other european countries to guard the greek borders. it has therefore proved to be what i had denounced from the outset, when merkel and juncker, speaking of alleged european borders, slyly demanded the co-management of the greek borders and, by extension, the aegean, under the pretext of the huge flows of refugees that drive turkish slave trade. the sovereign and non-negotiable rights of greece to guard its borders are being questioned. so, after the troika has turned greece into a protectorate and a debt colony, it now wants to send european troops to greece, supposedly to guard the greek borders. the creditors and the troika should know that this is not going to go away. the borders of my country are and will remain greek.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the vote to extend the mandate of the special committee on tax ruling follows on from what we voted at the previous plenary session of parliament in strasbourg. it was then found that one of the main flaws in the report was the fact that it did not ask for an extension of the current mandate. the fact that today's vote extends the mandate of the committee without attempting to change its structure or composition, i consider it a positive step and that is why i have decided to vote in favour, in the expectation that we will have tangible results in the near future on harmful corporate tax regimes both at european and international level.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i remain convinced that this special committee is not doing the job for which it was set up.
in writing. i am voting against this report, as the establishment of a committee to monitor decisions on taxation and state aid is in principle a positive step, but i also have serious reservations about whether this committee will achieve any tangible results.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the establishment, powers, composition and term of office of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures having equivalent effect and because i consider it necessary to set up this committee to combat tax evasion and avoidance.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the establishment of a committee to monitor decisions on taxation and state aid is, in principle, a positive step, but at the same time we have serious doubts whether this committee will achieve tangible results.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i myself supported the proposal to continue the work of the european parliament's special committee on tax rulings, which examines harmful corporate tax regimes and practices at european and international level.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i remain convinced that this special committee is not doing the job for which it was set up.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the appointments of members to the special committee on tax ruling because i do not think that the committee, in its current composition, could fulfil its role.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the proposed composition of the committee is not expected to produce the expected results.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the conclusion of an amending protocol to the agreement between the council, on behalf of the european union, and the principality of liechtenstein was discussed today. this report, which provides for measures to tax savings income in the form of interest, is particularly important in the light of the excessively harsh austerity policies pursued in recent years, particularly in countries such as greece which have been confronted with the economic crisis and have been forced to take very harsh measures to the detriment of the weaker social groups. the commission has already proposed that the tax on savings income should be reduced to a minimum, and that the tax on savings income should be reduced to a maximum. as in the case of the recent agreement with switzerland, this agreement is also in the right direction and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report as liechtenstein is a well-known tax haven and therefore the exchange of tax information serves international tax cooperation and compliance.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the eu-liechtenstein agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest, as liechtenstein is a well-known tax haven and therefore the exchange of tax information serves international tax cooperation and compliance with the relevant provisions.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the report underlines that the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. i support this report and i welcome the agreement as it aims at improving international tax cooperation and compliance and represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, because it is not complete and well documented and because additional actions and measures are required to tackle tax evasion and avoidance by multinational companies and individuals who are sheltering in tax havens such as liechtenstein.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ liechtenstein is a well-known tax haven and therefore the exchange of tax information serves international tax cooperation and compliance.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-liechtenstein agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest, under which from 2017 onwards the eu and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on each other's tax resident's financial accounts. the aim is to address situations where the taxpayer seeks to conceal funds representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ the the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry into frontex is a matter of particular importance. the prospect of a complaints mechanism for infringements of rights by frontex is crucial, especially in these politically and socially turbulent times. in fact, if we take into account the fact that frontex's actions have so far not produced the expected results, we realise that the establishment of such a mechanism could only improve the existing structure, by enabling asylum seekers and migrants to report possible violations against them. so while this proposal may not solve all the existing issues by establishing a non-independent individual appeal mechanism, the rationale for improving frontex is positive, and that is why i decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the frontex is an agency which, by its composition and operational capabilities, is unable to cope with migratory flows. here entire member states are building fences and reintroducing border controls to stem the waves of migrants. imagine if, of the 2 million migrants expected, 10,000 filed a complaint, true or false. the system will collapse. we'll be inundated with investigations, legal details, language difficulties, instead of dealing with the recording and providing assistance, the main mission of frontex. the illegal immigrants in particular will invent breaches to obstruct the work of the authorities, to demand their entry into the schengen area and to make their repatriation operations more difficult.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the frontex is an agency which, judging by its composition and operational capabilities, is unable to cope with migratory flows. here entire member states are building fences and reintroducing border controls to stem the waves of migrants. imagine if, of the 2 million migrants expected, 10,000 filed a complaint, true or false. the system will collapse. we will be caught in a whirlwind of investigations, legal details, language difficulties, instead of dealing with the recording and assistance that is the main mission of frontex. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. for all these reasons, i am voting against the special report by the european ombudsman following an own-initiative inquiry on frontex.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with setting up an individual complaint mechanism for frontex’s operations in case of breaches of fundamental rights. this was initiated by a special report of the european ombudsman. i stress the need for the implementation of a mechanism which will provide an effective remedy in case of violation of fundamental rights in this context. i support this report, since it underlines the need for close cooperation between frontex and the member states and it will be an improvement regarding the efficient implementation of this procedure, and acknowledging that legal and administrative safeguards are needed to ensure a proper follow-up of complaints. therefore, i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the special report of the european ombudsman following an own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz on frontex, as it is not complete and well-founded, as i have also mentioned in my written submission on this subject.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the frontex is an agency which, judging by its composition and operational capabilities, is unable to cope with migratory flows. here entire member states are building fences and reintroducing border controls to stem the waves of migrants. imagine if, of the 2 million migrants expected, 10,000 filed a complaint, true or false. the system will collapse. we will be caught in a whirlwind of investigations, legal details, language difficulties, instead of dealing with the recording and assistance that is the main mission of frontex. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the european ombudsman's recommendation to set up a mechanism by frontex to investigate complaints of violations of fundamental rights during the agency's operations. the european parliament rightly points out in its resolution specific measures for the proper functioning of the mechanism.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on sustainable urban mobility touches on an issue that concerns the vast majority of european states, and it comes at a time when discussions on a new binding climate agreement have been formalized. the unpleasant reality, which includes evidence of a steady rise in emissions since 1990 and which is associated with some 400 thousand deaths per year from pollution issues, is at the same time inextricably linked to transport problems and malfunctions in the urban environment. in view of these facts, it is obvious that any proposal for mobilization to improve conditions can and should be welcomed. i therefore believe that this proposal brings to the fore such issues as the protection of the environment and the health of citizens, particularly in urban areas, and i have therefore decided to support it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it proposes ways of acting that will benefit both the environment and european citizens and improve public health and living standards as well as the appearance of cities.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on sustainable urban mobility. the report proposes ways of acting that will benefit both the environment and european citizens and improve public health and living standards, as well as the image of cities.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the goal of facing up to the current environmental challenges by reducing urban mobility towards more sustainable modes of transport. the climate, health conditions, the road user’s life and social cohesion demand urgent action. even if there are considerable improvements in this matter, urban mobility is still experienced as a constraint arising from over-reliance on private cars powered by traditional fuels. by rethinking the way in which we conceive urban mobility and by shifting to more sustainable modes of transport, we can deal more effectively with these challenges. this is the reason why i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 2/12/2015, and because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report proposes ways of acting that will benefit both the environment and european citizens and improve public health and living standards, as well as the image of cities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on transport and tourism on sustainable urban mobility. given the congestion in urban areas, a different kind of urban mobility is more than necessary. the aim is to rethink the way we move within cities to transport people and goods. the resolution makes specific proposals in this direction.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of accidents at work is a step in the right direction. what can we do about it? firstly, we must encourage the building of networks in south-eastern europe, where my country, greece, is located, and support, through the connecting europe facility and the european fund for strategic investments of the juncker package, efforts to make connections directly, not only with italy, but also with countries such as turkey and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is important that the european union takes the lead in this initiative, because this will increase energy security. secondly, the internal market and competition must work in each member state, since the energy mix is a matter of national policy and since clean technologies are essential. in my country, greece, there is a problem with private access to all energy sources. private producers do not have equal access to lignite, so that they are currently favoured by low oil prices vis-à-vis ppc, but in the end competition does not work and consumers pay for it. we must also encourage consumers to conclude bilateral contracts with suppliers. the consumer is the one we must ultimately protect; we are here for them, so that they can reap the benefits of the energy union as quickly as possible. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i have not mentioned gas, but i can happily answer that i am clearly in favour of all the member states and, ultimately, the union itself having many different suppliers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas market is not affected by the crisis, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken any action in this area.
the commission mr president, the european union's energy strategy continues to promote, not only out of idealism but, above all, out of selfishness, the separation of accounting and ownership of public electricity generation and transmission companies, with the aim of fully liberalising european electricity markets, which will, however, exacerbate energy poverty in greece and the other countries of the european south. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we condemn the policy which the troika is trying to implement in greece by selling off 49% of admie, which is harmful to the power grid, and which ultimately aims, in due course, at the complete sale of the power grid itself, after it has been depreciated. in practice, there can be no strong energy strategy for greece without a strong ppp. moreover, the energy union strategy does not in fact serve anything other than the interests of european multinationals active in the energy sector, while at the same time limiting the sovereign rights of the union states to formulate and design an independent energy policy.
the commission the european energy union is a utopia. those who embrace it either dream of it or promote financial interests that do not treat the citizens of the countries as energy consumers. energy shortages will continue to exist. the union is heavily dependent on imports of crude oil, natural gas and coal. and what does he do about it? on the one hand it commits suicide by imposing sanctions on russia, a key supplier, and on the other hand it does not contribute to the declaration or to the protection of the eezs of greece and cyprus against turkish aggression. it 's an unbreakable rule: european energy security must ensure european security and the sovereignty of european countries without exception or asterisk. when we use natural resources as a means of foreign policy and destabilisation, and i am referring in particular to germany, we are not only undermining economic growth but also democratic stability in europe and the independence of sovereign states. only national capacity mechanisms for producing and exploiting national resources can contribute to energy independence and sustainable development in a europe that is constantly shrinking, ethnically, anthropologically, christian and socially.
the commission mr president, the trademark protection system should be simple, inexpensive and flexible enough to provide users with access to protection that corresponds to their needs. for example, some users want protection in only one member state, while others want uniform protection in all 28 member states of the union. the protection of trade marks at national level must therefore be maintained at the same time. this means establishing a complementary relationship between the eu and national trademark protection systems. in this context, the principle of territoriality, legal certainty and clarity should be safeguarded, both in the case of similarity and in the case of use of an identical trade mark for identical goods. particular attention should be paid to facilitating the registration and protection of the trade mark of smes affected by the economic crisis and austerity, in particular in greece and the countries of the european south.
the commission the commission is also aware that the european union has a duty to protect the rights of the victims of terrorism. we must alleviate the pain of the victims and their families, we must avoid heroising the terrorists and we must bring the truth to light and establish days of remembrance for the victims. unfortunately, some countries in the union have different criteria for terrorist attacks, depending on the identity of the victims and the perpetrators and, above all, on their ideological convictions. the greek state refuses to recognize and provide any form of support to victims of terrorist attacks when the victims are greek nationalists. in the dozens of terrorist attacks that have been carried out against our movement, the people's association "golden dawn", culminating in the cowardly and cold murder of two of our members, my son, giorgos futulis and manolis kapelonis and the serious injury of alexandros gerondas, the state not only did not support the victims and their families, as it should, according to the european directive 2012/29/eu, but on the contrary, put forward and continues to put forward obstacles, to be indifferent and to be inactive. i report that in over eighty attacks, not a single arrest has ever been made. the commission is therefore right, if it is really concerned about the victims, to ensure that the rules are protected and respected in all countries, regardless of their ideology.
the commission mr president, i am pleased that all political groups agree that directive 2012/29/eu cannot cover victims of terrorism as it concerns victims of crime. terrorism is a crime against humanity and a real threat to the european union. the victims and their families need special arrangements, they need recognition and respect for their rights, they need social, economic, political, psychological and legal support. whether they are phony rebels who attack the institutions of democracy, such as the judiciary, parliament, business, military and the political establishment - as happened with the 17th of november that marginalized my country for 30 years, or they are paranoids possessed by religious ideology, like those of isis, the perpetrators of terrorist acts create victims, blood, pain and panic. the victims of these crimes have rights which need and require special regulation in order to be protected. ladies and gentlemen, the european union's response to terrorism must come through more democracy. the response to terrorism must be delivered without fear or panic. the protection of the victims, the heroes of this case, requires a response based on respect for democratic norms.
the commission mr president, after the bloody terrorist attacks by daesh in paris, which left hundreds of dead and wounded, it is necessary to take decisive action to combat terrorism and protect its victims. we therefore express our sympathy to the families of the victims of the daesh terrorist attack. the implementation of the relevant directive 2012/29/eu in the member states of the european union opens up a first field of protection for victims of terrorism. but that is not enough. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the rights of victims of terrorism, in particular in the context of the fight against terrorism. it is now an urgent matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, including the creation of a european police force, the creation of a european police force, the creation of a european police force, and the creation of a european police force. i believe that measures must be taken against turkey and those arab countries which support daesh in syria. the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the peace process in the middle east is not disrupted by the threat of war.
the commission madam president, on tuesday 1 december 2015 the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament decided not to authorise the use of genetically modified maize nk 603t25 for food and feed. and what did the commission do then? he hastened, aaron aaron, to approve this very genetically modified maize from monsanto. at the same time, the case of glyphosate is still pending, which the world health organization decided last march to classify as a possible carcinogen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission must respect its democratic obligations towards the european parliament, which takes very specific decisions which are contrary to what the commission does.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the european progress microfinance facility aims to facilitate the creation and support of small businesses in order to boost employment in the member states of the union. since 2010, it has focused on supporting the long-term unemployed and the economically weaker sections of society in general, by providing micro-credit of less than eur 25 000 for the creation and expansion of small businesses. however, the progress facility, which was set up to fight poverty by encouraging entrepreneurship, has turned into a profitable banking industry. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the loan, but that the commission has provided information on the amount of the loan, which is not available. the funds for the progress mechanism for greece and the other member states of the european union should therefore be increased.
the commission madam president, there is no need for hypocrisy and ambiguity in the fight against terrorism, especially in view of the strategic cooperation between the united arab emirates and europol, and this is because it is known that, in addition to turkey, there are certain arab countries which are supporting daesh. on november 16, the guardian, the well-known british newspaper, published a document from the united states state department that reveals the jihadists' financial ties to saudi arabia and other arab countries, including the united arab emirates. in order to counter daesh terrorism, therefore, the umbilical cord between terrorism and money must be cut. if the arab emirates want to contribute to the fight against terrorism, then they must accept, in the first instance, the thousands of refugees from iraq and syria who have flooded greece and the rest of the european states. all the rest is nothing but cheap political consumption and propaganda that serves as a fig leaf to cover up the emirati ties with the jihadists.
the commission madam president, there is no uniformity in the common fisheries policy of the european union, as the technical measures are scattered across more than 30 specific regulations, constituting a complex, heterogeneous and disorganized system of provisions which are not only inconsistent but also often contradictory. the geographical approximation of technical measures clearly reflects the different treatment of the mediterranean, as the commission, in its recent study on technical measures, did not include the mediterranean because of its complexity. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the future of the european union. the european union must not divide its common fisheries policy but instead adopt equal measures for all the countries of the european union. at the same time, it must financially support the impoverished fishermen of my country, greece, who are unable to cope financially because of the unbearable third memorandum imposed by the troika on greece, destroying the primary sector, a primary sector in which farmers have risen up against the tax-cutting policy of the troika and the syriza-anel government.
the commission mr president, we are discussing the deepening of emu, which means the expansion and strengthening of the eu's anti-people structures, further unification and escalation of anti-worker policy in all countries and not just the over-indebted ones, with the aim of profitability for capital. the role of the eurogroup and its supervision are being strengthened by means of competitions, and a european council and national budgetary councils are being set up whose sole purpose is to automatically reduce wages, pensions and social spending, which are sacrificed to monopoly profits. the integration of markets such as energy, digital and banking capital markets, without removing the barriers between member states, aims to raise capital and to upgrade european monopolies, in view of the signing of the transatlantic agreement. in greece, the syriza-anel government is intensifying its anti-people offensive and, in order to alienate the people's consent, is attempting to deceive them. the european parliament, which is a reactionary instrument of the union, has voted and ratified the anti-working class policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no so-called democratic accountability is going to make it popular. the people's confrontation with the strategy of european union capital and governments is the only way out that is in their interest.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr dijsselbloem, mr dombrovskis, the german chancellor, mr gabriel, said three days ago that the high rates of marine le pen's votes in france were due to the obsession with harsh unilateral austerity. the performance of the eurozone shows that this austerity is not paying off, because we have anaemic and weak growth, high unemployment, low investment and increasing poverty and inequality. the strengthening of the far right is also threatening the eurozone itself with disintegration, and so the eurozone, if it is to survive and not be dissolved, must move faster towards more substantial changes. what you have said about strengthening democratic accountability is positive but not enough. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. there must be partial reciprocity in order to respond to the debt problem which is unsustainable for several european countries. there must be a european deposit guarantee, which is the third pillar of the commission's proposal, despite the reactions of mr schäuble who was quick to disagree, and there must be transitional payments and stronger convergence policies within the euro area, and finally all this must not be postponed for two years. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the policy of austerity and the brutal fiscal adjustment imposed by the eurogroup have finally filled europe with armies of unemployed, the debt of the eurozone countries has skyrocketed and the countries of the european south are stuck in recession. with your memorandum policy you have turned greece into a vast social graveyard, where 40% of the population lives below the poverty line and the unemployed number over one and a half million. what you have finally achieved, mr dijsselbloem, you and the troika, is to rescue the greek oligarchs, to throw the greek people into poverty and now threaten them from above with a rescue by their own means, the notorious bail-in. as if that were not enough, with memorandum iii, you proceed to the looting of public property, dissolve the insurance, cut wages and pensions and hammer the homes of the greeks. but you should know, mr dijsselbloem, that the greek people are not going to put up with you for long and will soon throw the troika out of greece.
the commission mr dijsselbloem, you have come here today to talk to us about the future of the euro. we greeks, unfortunately, know you very well and i can say that i am not at all happy to see you, because you are one of those who have forced the greek people to live under conditions unheard of for a european state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. your behaviour is precisely what is destroying the single currency. in any case, the euro was wrongly founded from the start. but the ideological frameworks it embodied and the structures it formed ultimately resulted in its inability to function. in addition, you have not taken the needs of the smaller economies into account at all, but have in fact tried to serve the interests of the larger countries, and especially germany. for us greeks, the euro proved to be an extremely expensive currency that acted as a catalyst to deliver the final blow to an already weak economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, while the founding treaties of the european union state that the objectives are the well-being of the peoples, economic convergence, employment and growth, the countries and peoples sharing the same currency see nothing of the sort. they don't see democracy and they don't see solidarity. the euro has become a monetary prison, with the absent now overactive mr dijsselbloem as its jailer - and with what legitimacy? the euro has become a roman arena of german inspiration, where the strong impose their will and interests on the weak. it has plunged countries into recession, unemployment and the eurozone in general into stagnation. it has condemned the young generation to long-term unemployment. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. it is said, and it is true, that the euro is a political project. but the euro's function creates new divisions: north and south, rich and poor, borrowers and lenders, surplus and deficit. in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, what can the plan be? the euro cannot be the plan, it cannot be the way, it cannot be the road that leads to the union of peoples and countries.
madam president, i would like first to thank roberto gualtieri for his topical contribution and i agree with him, but we still know that today technically the eurogroup is not a formal entity within the eu. however, its impact and hard decisions are really heavy, especially for member states in the special macroeconomic consolidation programme. it controls areas that do not belong to the full competence of the eu, such as taxation, budgetary policy, the public sector, employment, or even health policy regulations. in the case of greece, for example, the eurogroup replaces the european semester, as you all know, and also the stability and growth pact, by imposing hard rules through the blurred and questionable method of soft loan. what is the limit of these hard policies created by the eurogroup’s soft loan policy? who sets the limits, and where and when are we going to discuss the content and also evaluate the effects of these policies? shouldn’t the european parliament have the answers? it seems that for the euro area to institutionalise its functioning within the european economic governance framework, the council’s recommendation indeed makes an important step forward, but much more should be done in order to form the environment of legitimacy for the euro area’s economic decision-making, and this should be crystal clear. there is no path to recovery and macroeconomic policy without the political consent and transparency that only the european parliament can provide.
the commission the european council in madrid, in the context of the european council in madrid, has already taken a number of decisions on the future of the european union. after all, the crisis in the eurozone started with fifteen countries on the euro and ends with nineteen countries on the euro. strong support mechanisms have been set up for countries with specific or general problems in their economies, and these have proved effective. ireland has completed its own programme with distinction, spain has dealt with the banking crisis with assistance but without entering a programme, portugal and cyprus have shown particularly positive results. so the problems of greece, which many are invoking in a vain attempt to devalue the euro and the eurozone, are the exception rather than the rule. but even in greece, where the forces of the left have been so harshly critical of the eurozone and its rules of operation, even there these same forces have finally given up everything and agreed to implement, when they became government, a much harsher adjustment programme than that which they used to denounce in order to allow greece to remain in the eurozone. this says everything about the stability and prospects of the euro area. we must therefore find the political courage to complete a difficult but necessary policy and to be more dynamic, fair and effective in its implementation. there's no other way.
gue/ngl), in writing. the debate on economic and monetary union in the european parliament today highlights the gulf between the various european leaders and the unpleasant reality. the architecture of the union has major shortcomings which some of the member states are unwilling to acknowledge, much less address. economic and monetary union without the harmonisation of tax policies, as is currently the case in the euro area, leads to transnational competition to attract businesses by providing preferential tax treatment and results in tax exemption for large multinational capital. a single currency without a pan-european deposit guarantee system, now proposed by the commission but with no clear timetable for implementation, would mean credit suffocation for the over-indebted mediterranean countries and the inability of their small and mediumsized enterprises, in particular, to survive because of the prohibitive cost of borrowing for them. a single currency without a common border guarantee implies a long-term burden of public debt at unsustainable levels from the extremely high defence spending for geopolitically exposed member states such as greece, which has been facing an officially stated war threat from its neighbour turkey for decades. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the participation of switzerland in the european asylum support office is hereby approved. in particular, switzerland shall be allowed to participate fully in the activities of the office and to contribute financially in proportion to its gdp. it is also envisaged that this contribution may be increased if deemed necessary. i believe that this agreement will strengthen the agency's capacity and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the arrangement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office is a positive cooperation process serving the overall objective of the proper functioning of all european states. as it concerns asylum issues and provides for cooperation with easo, it is obvious that it should be welcomed by the european parliament. that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the european asylum support office strengthens practical cooperation between member states on asylum issues, promotes the implementation of the common european asylum system and provides support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure. in particular, the financial contribution of 'associated countries' and their participation in the work of the office, given their connection to the dublin system, would only be of particular added value if the schengen and dublin treaties operated in the interests of the economic interests of eu citizens, their security and the values of nation states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european asylum support office shall strengthen practical cooperation between member states on asylum matters, promote the implementation of the common european asylum system and provide support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure. in particular, the financial contribution of 'associated countries' and their participation in the work of the office, given their connection to the dublin system, would be of particular added value only if the schengen and dublin treaties operated in such a way as to safeguard the economic interests of eu citizens, their security and the values of the member states. for the above reasons, i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the european asylum support office shall strengthen practical cooperation between member states on asylum matters, promote the implementation of the common european asylum system and provide support to member states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure. in particular, the financial contribution of 'associated' countries and their participation in the work of the office, given their connection to the dublin system, would only be of particular added value if the schengen and dublin treaties operated in such a way as to safeguard the economic interests of eu citizens, their security and the values of nation states.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the abolition of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in any six-month period (180 days). the european union is also committed to the development of the economic and social cohesion of the dominican republic, which is a key element in the process of economic and social integration.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence, which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is considered that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the dominican republic and constitutes a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is considered that the high level of confidence in the applicants is justified in view of the low rejection rate. in line with the same view, this gives citizens the opportunity not only to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at reduced economic and practical costs. this is a completely wrong view. the short-stay visa requirement contributes to ensuring order, preventing the entry of criminal elements and creating a climate of mutual trust, as long as the rules are respected. the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and their provisional application before the european parliament's approval is in place is unthinkable.
in writing. the view that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the dominican republic and constitutes a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that there is a high degree of trust in visa applicants, as reflected in the low rejection rate, but that it allows citizens not only to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at reduced cost and cost, is wholly wrong. the short-stay visa requirement contributes to ensuring order, preventing the entry of criminal elements and creating a climate of mutual trust, as long as the rules are respected. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the visa waiver for third-country nationals, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 4 of the schengen convention. for the above reasons, i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is entirely wrong to believe that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a decisive contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the dominican republic and is a complementary means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that there is a high level of trust in visa applicants, which is reflected in the low rate of refusals, and that this agreement allows beneficiaries not only to benefit fully from the eu-dominican republic partnership, but also to share in its cost and practical benefits. the short-stay visa requirement contributes to ensuring order, preventing the entry of criminal elements and creating a climate of mutual trust only if the rules are respected. finally, it is inconceivable to continue the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and temporarily putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ this report gives parliament's consent to the visa waiver for stays of up to three months (90 days) in a total period of 6 months (180 days). as this decision represents progress in bilateral relations between the european union and vanuatu, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence, which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the republic of vanuatu neither constitutes a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, nor does it have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector. i would also like to point out that this is a country where gender-based violence and human rights violations are a daily occurrence. finally, i find it unacceptable that the european union is represented in the joint committee for the management of the agreement (article 6) by the european commission alone, without the participation of the directly elected members of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the republic of vanuatu is neither a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, nor does it have a positive impact on investment and development of the tourism sector, in particular in a country where gender-based violence and human rights abuses are a daily occurrence. in addition to the above, i find it unacceptable that the european union is represented in the joint committee for the management of the agreement (article 6) by the european commission alone, without the participation of the directly elected meps. for these reasons, i am voting against the eu-vanuatu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the republic of vanuatu does not constitute an additional instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, nor does it have a positive impact on investment and development of the tourism sector, in particular in a country where gender-based violence and human rights abuses are a daily occurrence. in addition, in the joint committee for the management of the agreement (article 6), the european union is represented only by the european commission, without the participation of directly elected meps.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the abolition of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in any six-month period (180 days). as this decision represents progress in bilateral relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence, which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago does not guarantee cooperation in the exploitation of oil and gas reserves, high-level direct investment and the development of tourism. the main thing is the unilateral exploitation by the various trust funds and banks of the citizens of the contracting parties. the eu must not interfere in the constitutional reality of trinidad and tobago by, for example, demanding the abolition of the death penalty. finally, i think it is unthinkable that visa waiver agreements should be signed and applied provisionally before the european parliament has given its consent.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago does not guarantee cooperation in the exploitation of oil and gas reserves, high-level direct investment and the development of tourism. the main thing is the unilateral exploitation by the various trust funds and banks of the citizens of the contracting parties. the eu must not interfere in the constitutional reality of trinidad and tobago by, for example, demanding the abolition of the death penalty. finally, i think it is unthinkable that visa waiver agreements should be signed and applied provisionally before the european parliament has given its consent.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago does not guarantee cooperation in the exploitation of oil and gas reserves, high levels of direct investment and the development of tourism. on the contrary, it is more likely to promote the unilateral exploitation of the various trust funds and banks, to the detriment of the citizens of the contracting parties. the eu must not interfere in the constitutional reality of trinidad and tobago by demanding, for example, the abolition of the death penalty. finally, it is inconceivable to continue the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and temporarily putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the abolition of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in any six-month period (180 days). as this decision represents a significant step forward in bilateral relations between the european union and samoa, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence, which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i think it is wrong to sign an agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the samoan islands, because such an exemption does not constitute a major advantage for tourism or business travel and will not have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector. the large migratory flows of samoan citizens to the usa and what would happen if these flows were to head towards the eu must be taken into account.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the eu-samoa agreement because i consider the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the samoan islands to be wrong, and because it is not going to create a significant advantage for tourism or business travel, nor will it have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector. i am thinking of the large immigration flows of samoan citizens to the usa and what would happen if those flows were to head towards the eu.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for eu citizens and samoan citizens is not appropriate as it does not represent a significant advantage in terms of tourism or business travel and will not positively affect investment and development of the tourism sector. we must take account of the large immigration flows of samoan citizens to the united states and consider what would happen if these flows were to head towards the eu.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the abolition of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in any six-month period (180 days). as this decision represents progress in bilateral relations between the european union and grenada, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence, which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the grenada is a country facing numerous challenges due to its size, distance from markets, vulnerability to external threats and limited resources. the country is particularly lacking in democracy and basic human rights, as evidenced by the lack of protection for children and the inability to eliminate domestic violence. in this context, any agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a political and moral mistake.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the grenada is a country facing serious problems because of its size, its distance from markets, its vulnerability to external threats and its limited resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in this context, any agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a political and moral mistake, and i am therefore voting against the eu-grenada agreement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the grenada is a country facing numerous challenges due to its size, distance from markets, vulnerability to external threats and limited resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and the prevention of violence against women. in this context, any agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a political and moral mistake.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the abolition of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in any six-month period (180 days). as this decision represents a step forward in the development of bilateral relations between the european union and east timor, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence, which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both sides. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for eu citizens and for east timorese citizens is unfeasible because this is a country that is seriously lagging behind in terms of the consolidation of democratic concepts such as human rights, media freedom and gender equality, in particular the fight against domestic violence and good governance. as with the agreements with the other countries of the cotonou agreement, i consider it unthinkable to sign and apply visa waiver agreements without the approval of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for eu citizens and for east timorese citizens is unfeasible because it is a country that is lagging far behind in critical areas such as the establishment of democratic concepts, the implementation of human rights, media freedom and gender equality and, in particular, the fight against domestic violence, but also good governance. i also believe, as is the case with the other countries of the cotonou agreement, that the practice of signing visa-free agreements and their provisional application without the approval of the european parliament is unthinkable. for these reasons i am voting against the eu-east timor agreement.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of east timor on the short-stay visa waiver, because it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the european union and for citizens of east timor is unfeasible, given that there is a serious shortfall in the country in terms of the consolidation of democratic concepts such as human rights, freedom of the media and gender equality, as well as in terms of combating domestic violence and good governance. as with the other cotonou countries, it is unthinkable to follow the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and provisionally putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the abolition of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in a total period of six months (180 days). the european union is also committed to the development of the relations between the european union and the republic of san marino, and to the development of relations between the european union and the republic of san marino.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the agreement between the european union and the state of santa lucia on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i recognize that saint lucia is making a good effort to strengthen its human rights mechanisms, but i cannot ignore the most serious cases of gender inequality, human trafficking and prostitution, which remain a reality despite the passage of legislation in 2010. as for the other countries of the cotonou agreement, i consider it inconceivable that visa waiver agreements can be signed and applied provisionally without the prior approval of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the despite its efforts to strengthen human rights mechanisms, saint lucia continues to be plagued by gender inequality, human trafficking and prostitution, despite the passage of legislation in 2010. as with the other countries of the cotonou agreement, i think it is unthinkable that visa waiver agreements should be signed and applied provisionally before the european parliament has given its consent. for these reasons, my vote on the eu-santa lucia agreement is against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver, because it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the despite its ambitious efforts to strengthen human rights mechanisms, saint lucia still lacks equality between men and women, and human trafficking and prostitution have not been eradicated in the country, despite the adoption of legislation in 2010. as with the other cotonou countries, it is unthinkable to follow the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and provisionally putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the lifting of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in a total period of 6 months (180 days). as this decision represents a significant step forward in the development of bilateral relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the state of saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver is a positive effort of cooperation and coexistence, which can only have a positive impact on the citizens of both parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the saint vincent and the grenadines is a country that poses no theoretical threat, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of security and public order. the short-stay visa requirement could therefore be lifted if there were measurable data and field trials on issues related to illegal immigration, public policy and security, and the union's external relations with that country. as for the other countries of the cotonou agreement, i find it inconceivable that visa waiver agreements should be signed and applied provisionally before the european parliament has given its consent.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the saint vincent and the grenadines poses no theoretical threat as a country, either in terms of illegal immigration, or in terms of security and public order. i therefore believe that the visa requirement for short stays could be lifted, but i do not see how that can happen at a time when there are no measurable data and no on-the-spot investigations have been carried out on issues relating to illegal immigration, public order and security, and the union's external relations with that country. i also believe, as is the case with the other countries of the cotonou agreement, that it is inconceivable to sign visa waiver agreements and apply them provisionally before the european parliament has given its consent. that is why i am voting against.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver, as it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the saint vincent and the grenadines as a country does not, in theory, represent any threat to the eu, either in terms of illegal immigration or in terms of security and public order. the short-stay visa requirement could be lifted, but there are no measurable data and no real-world tests in the areas of illegal immigration, public order and security, and the union's external relations with this country. as with the other cotonou countries, it is unthinkable to follow the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and provisionally putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report gives parliament's consent to the lifting of the visa requirement for stays of up to three months (90 days) in any six-month period (180 days). as this decision represents a significant step forward in bilateral relations between the european union and the united arab emirates, i voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the eu's proposal for an agreement with the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver is part of a wider effort to improve the conditions of movement for third-country nationals. while such efforts are positive moves and should be welcomed, there are nevertheless strong concerns about violations of human rights and freedom of expression as well as women's rights in the uae. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step. the positive vote that was recorded was by-passed, so i am correcting the vote.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the united arab emirates, despite the glitter of the tourist resorts of dubai and abu dhabi, remains an arab state in which any notion of human rights, equality, democracy and religious tolerance remains a foreign word - a phony. any free-trade agreement concluded with such countries is a dead-end for the eu states. trade agreements and exchanges, tourism and other, can continue to be conducted under controlled channels in order to maintain security and prevent the inflow of extremist elements. finally, i would like to reiterate that i consider it unthinkable that visa waiver agreements should be signed and that they should be applied provisionally without the approval of the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the united arab emirates, beyond the glitter of the tourist resorts of dubai and abu dhabi, is still an arab state where every notion of human rights, equality, democracy and religious tolerance remains a foreign concept, a chimera. free movement to and from such countries opens up a window of opportunity for eu countries. trade agreements and exchanges, tourism and other, must and can be conducted under controlled channels in order to maintain security and avoid the inflow of extremist elements. finally, i think it is unthinkable that visa waiver agreements should be signed and provisionally applied before the european parliament has given its consent. for these reasons, i am voting against the eu-uae agreement on the short-stay visa waiver.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver, because it is not complete and well-founded. in addition, there are grounds for believing that the application of that recommendation will be exploited by potential beneficiaries to enter the eu without a visa and subsequently to illegally prolong their stay in the union beyond the end of the short stay in question, thereby contributing to an increase in illegal immigration within the union. finally, there is an increased risk that the regulation under vote will also be exploited by jihadist terrorists, who will be able to enter the eu more easily under the new visa-free regime than under the regime in force so far, which allows the competent authorities of the eu member states and frontex to exercise strict control over persons entering the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the united arab emirates, despite the glitter of the tourist resorts of dubai and abu dhabi, remains an arab state where any notion of human rights, equality, democracy and religious tolerance are still unknown words and constitute a utopia. any free movement with such countries is a 'doormat' for eu states. trade agreements and exchanges, tourism and other, can be carried out under controlled channels in order to maintain security and avoid the inflow of extremist elements. finally, it is inconceivable to continue the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and temporarily putting them into effect before they are approved by the european parliament.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the in this report, parliament gives its favourable opinion to the council on the implementation of the memorandum of cooperation between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the proposal to adopt the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust is a technical procedure for the ratification of the council's position on the implementing decision on the deepening of cooperation between the two services with a view to improving the effectiveness of their activities. i have therefore drawn up this report as rapporteur and voted in favour of it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the draft legislative resolution as it is necessary to safeguard the personal data of natural persons in cases of exchange of information between eurojust and the edps.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust, because, in my view, it is neither complete nor well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it is necessary to safeguard the personal data of natural persons in cases of exchange of information between eurojust and the edps.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the proposal to adopt the methods and procedure for the allocation of traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni concerns a very important area of streamlining the functioning of the european union. as in the recent past there have been large discrepancies in the financial figures of the members and in the individual burdens to which each member has been called upon to respond, it is becoming evident that any process of correcting the malfunctions must be supported. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the existing procedure for allocating the member states' traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni, despite the attempt to modify it, remains excessively complex and needs to be fundamentally reformed in order to be able to meet the current requirements created by the critical situation in which the union finds itself.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because i believe that the existing procedure for allocating traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni of the member states, even after an attempt to amend it, still remains too complex and needs to be fundamentally reformed in order to be able to respond to the current requirements and the critical circumstances facing the union.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 on the methods and procedure for the allocation of traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni and on the measures to address cash needs, because it is comprehensive and well-documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the existing procedure for allocating the traditional own resources and the own resources based on vat and gni of the member states, despite the attempt to modify it, remains excessively complex and needs to be fundamentally reformed to meet the current requirements of the union's critical situation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the proposal to waive the immunity of george kourtso is related to prosecutions brought against the mep for issues that have arisen in the past and are not related to his views or activities in the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the european parliament's immunity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary. i therefore vote in favour of the request for the waiver of mr george kourtzow's parliamentary immunity.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr georgios kirzhou, following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the proposal to waive the immunity of stelios kouloulos concerns prosecutions brought against the mep for issues that have arisen in the past and are not related to his activities in the european parliament but to his previous professional activity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. therefore, i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ parliamentary privileges must under no circumstances lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to law and justice, and that is why i am voting in favour of the request to lift the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglos.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloulos following the positive recommendation of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliamentary privileges must not in any case lead to unequal and preferential treatment of members in relation to the law and the judiciary.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of finland, is a legitimate move to address the problems caused by the constantly changing conditions of global competition. as the objective of this globalisation adjustment fund is by definition to support groups of people who are facing labour problems as a result of globalisation, i believe that this proposal has a reasonable basis and should be supported for the benefit of workers in certain areas of finland. that is why i voted in favour of it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support to people losing their jobs due to globalisation. this report, concerns the case of 1 603 redundancies from finland. finland is specialised in computer software industry and its small enterprises are severely affected by the globalisation and international crisis. i voted in favour of this report, since the aim of this european globalisation adjustment fund is to respond to the massive delocalisation that finland is facing in the sector of ict.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because it is, in my view, fully and sufficiently substantiated.
in writing. ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the dismissed and not to reintegration or retraining companies. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted against the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund - request from finland egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important european support tool for workers affected by the consequences of globalisation. the countries of the european south, which are facing the greatest problem, should make full use of the provisions of this fund.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i would suggest that we vote in favour of the amendment. the amendment proposes to reject the council's position on the harmonisation of the member states' legislation on trade marks and intellectual property rights, as (a) it does not sufficiently cover the existing legal gaps and (b) the attempt to fully harmonise the legislation of all member states leads in the long term to the levelling of the specificity of each of them and consequently to the homogenization sought by the eu powers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the eu trade mark recommendation because it proposes to reject the council's position on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states on trade marks and intellectual property rights, as (a) it does not sufficiently cover the existing legal gaps and (b) the attempt to fully harmonise the legislation of all member states leads in the long term to the levelling of the specificity of each of them and consequently to the homogenization sought by the eu powers.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on the fees payable to the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs) because it is incomplete and unsubstantiated, and for the reasons mentioned in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 14/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the amendment proposes to reject the council's position on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states on trade marks and intellectual property rights, since: (b) the attempt to achieve full harmonisation of the laws of the member states leads in the long run to the levelling of the specificity of each of them and, consequently, to the homogenization sought by the powerful in the eu.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu trade mark by mrs cecilia wikström. it is a positive thing that a compromise has been reached between all the european institutions.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have voted today on the proposal for a recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. although theoretically this proposal is aimed at modernising the rules on trade marks at european level, i believe that it concerns very delicate issues of business protection and that a very thorough dialogue is required to achieve the desired results, which has not happened. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i would suggest that we vote in favour of the amendment. the amendment proposes to reject the council's position on the approximation of the laws of the member states on trade marks, since (a) it does not sufficiently cover the existing legal gaps and (b) the attempt to fully harmonise the legislation of all member states leads in the long term to the levelling of the specificity of each of them and, consequently, to the homogenization sought by the eu's powerful.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks because it proposes to reject the council's position on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, since (a) it does not sufficiently cover the existing legal gaps and (b) the attempt to fully harmonise the legislation of all member states leads in the long term to the levelling of the specificity of each of them and, consequently, to the homogenization sought by the eu powers.
in writing. ‒ this report is on the recast on the community registered trademarks. the aim of this report is to modernise the procedures for the registration of marks, as well as the shift from a community approach to an eu approach. this report will also block the transit of goods from third countries which are counterfeited. however, the generic medicines are not excluded from this blockage. i voted against this report, because i am very suspicious and careful with the broadening possibilities of blocking goods.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, because i consider that it is neither complete nor well-founded, and also for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 14/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the amendment proposes to reject the council's position on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, since: (b) the attempt to achieve full harmonization of the laws of the member states leads in the long run to the levelling of the specific characteristics of each of them and, consequently, to the homogenization sought.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted today on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a control and enforcement system applicable in the convention area for future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. the report concerns the improvement of existing rules with a view to making the most of fishery products in the north-east atlantic. as there has already been a vote on this, which was well received, and as there are no serious concerns about its outcome, i consider that it is indeed achieving its objective and that is why i voted in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against this report because it is moving in the right direction and solves issues that are actually arising in these fishing areas.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because it is moving in the right direction, solving issues arising in these fishing areas.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a control and enforcement system applicable in the convention area for future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, as it is neither complete nor substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report is moving in the right direction, solving issues arising in the fisheries concerned.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted today on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing emergency trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. i do not agree with the commission's proposal, since i believe that we must not forget the particular characteristics of the region, which are particularly marked by the social and political upheavals of the recent past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the hostages.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ since the launch of the stabilisation and association process with the western balkans in 1999, there was not any agreement regarding the eu and bosnia, herzegovina. this is the first agreement regarding trade with those countries. i voted against this report, since it does not find both parties satisfied with the conclusion of the negotiation rounds. however, one positive thing in the report is that for once, delegated acts concern human rights violations, as well as providing to suspend trade if there is any human rights violation.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing emergency trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application to bosnia and herzegovina, because it is not complete and well-founded.
in writing. ‒ it is impossible to grant privileges to countries which have nothing to do with european values.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported the report on the suspension of the application of the emergency trade measures in relation to bosnia and herzegovina. the suspension of trade preferences for bosnia and herzegovina should be seen as an incentive to resolve the current disagreement with the eu on the readjustment of the interim agreement.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol, i find to be contrary and therefore voted against it. it is well known that europe continues to trade in arms with third countries and the arab emirates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i voted against the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the any strategic cooperation agreement between the eu (europol) and the uae is illogical. the uae is a centre of economic and financial crime and a haven for perpetrators of economic crime, while its banking system invests in profits from vat fraud and intra-community fraudulent trade. to date, the uae has operated outside of any rational prosecution of financial criminals and crimes, and its performance as a rule of law has fallen far short of western christian societies and countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the any strategic cooperation agreement between the eu (europol) and the uae is illogical. the uae is a centre of economic and financial crime, a haven for economic criminals and its banking system is invested in profits from vat fraud and intra-community fraudulent trade. so far, the uae has operated outside the logic of prosecuting financial criminals and crimes, and its performance as a rule of law is far from christian societies and western states. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates (uae). the agreement aims at exchanging information that includes general situation reports and analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and on crime-prevention methods, training and support in individual criminal investigations, but excludes the exchange of personal data. according to europol the need to cooperate with this country is relevant, as it is becoming a growing hub for economic and financial crime. i recognise that this agreement would reinforce the fight against financial fraud and enhance international cooperation in relevant matters. however, it would be preferable to proceed with its adoption after the entry into force of the provisions of the new europol regulation. additionally, no mention has been made of the involvement of the eu in dealing arms to that region. therefore, i voted against this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the draft council implementing decision on the approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol, because it is not complete and well-founded and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 14/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the any strategic cooperation agreement between the eu (europol) and the uae is illogical. the uae is a centre of economic and financial crime, a haven for economic criminals, and its banking system invests in profits from vat fraud and intra-community fraudulent trade. so far, the uae has operated outside the logic of prosecuting financial criminals and crimes, and its performance as a rule of law is far from that of western-style states and christian societies.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the uae and europol, as i hope that the conclusion of this agreement will help and strengthen the fight against financial fraud and contribute to strengthening international cooperation against crime.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the road to a european energy union is a debate of particular importance for all member states. although it contains positive elements regarding the sources and the process of energy production, it does not treat the question of energy as a field of concern to society as a whole. on the other hand, the attempt to impose central decisionmaking leads to the weakening of the voice of the states and thus to the empowerment of powerful companies that will seek to enforce their interests. that's why he finds me so opposed and i've decided to stay away.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against the report because we believe that it fails to respond to and provide solutions to the union's major energy problem, while at the same time not avoiding obstructions and aggressive rhetoric towards third countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because it fails to respond to and provide solutions to the major energy problem facing the union and because it does not avoid blocking and aggressive rhetoric towards third countries.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the road to a european energy union because it is neither complete nor well-documented, and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 14/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report fails to answer and provide solutions to the major energy problem facing the union and does not avoid blocking and aggressive rhetoric towards third countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a european energy union because i believe that europe needs a sustainable energy landscape based largely on energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure. the important thing is to mobilise resources immediately to build the necessary infrastructure needed to this end quickly.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target by making europe's electricity grid ready for 2020, it is a positive effort to complete the interconnection of europe's electricity grids. as it is part of the wider objective of upgrading european infrastructure by 2020, while using elements that are more environmentally friendly, i think it should be supported. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: we are opposed to this report because it gives too many powers to the commission, because it points to countries outside the union which, as is particularly the case with turkey, are also hostile to member states as almost equal partners, and finally because it does not even guarantee the achievement of the objective of energy security for the union's states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because i believe it gives too much power to the commission, because it puts countries outside the union, which are, as is the case with turkey, hostile to member states, as almost equal partners, and because it does not ultimately ensure that the objective of energy security for the union's member states is achieved.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target to make europe's electricity grid ready by 2020 because i do not consider it to be a complete and documented report. i also vote for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 14/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report gives too much power to the commission, it gives almost equal partners to countries outside the union which, especially in the case of turkey, are also hostile to member states, and it does not guarantee the achievement of the objective of energy security for the union's countries.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target and improving the functioning of the internal electricity market in the eu will have multiple benefits for all european citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ today's vote on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility is a welcome attempt to find solutions to the economic crisis that has hit european states in recent years. although it is not a final solution, i voted in favour of it as it does provide an opportunity to promote innovative ideas and develop entrepreneurship.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are opposed to this report because, although it refers to a very important support mechanism, it nevertheless tries to make illegal immigrants the target group of this mechanism, instead of being interested in the problems of european citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against despite the fact that this report refers to a very important support mechanism, and this is because it is trying to make illegal immigrants the target group of this mechanism instead of being interested in the problems of european citizens.
in writing. – i welcome the report by mr. schulz. indeed, microfinance has proved to be a useful tool in promoting self-employment among people who have lost their jobs as well as in helping micro-enterprises to have access to credit in times of crises. however, the microfinance market is still very fragmented in the eu with very different regulations. in many european countries, such as my country greece, microfinance is the monopoly of banks. only regulated banks may engage in micro-lending and there is no specific regulation for the sector. so banks have the monopoly but target groups of microfinance —unemployed, disadvantaged people—differ from those of banks. moreover, as the report highlights, micro-credits are linked to the provision of support services to beneficiaries, again something that it is not usually within the remit of a bank. this has led to a strange situation where microfinance and the eu tools –progress and the new easi- are not fully working in a country, greece, where —with an unemployed rate above 25%— is so badly needed. we support the report's call to investigate possibilities for non-bank intermediaries to enter the microcredit market without a partnering bank".
in writing. ‒ this report evaluates the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility, which is a framework of financial services to persons and small enterprises lacking access to banking and related services. it does not finance micro-entrepreneurs itself but enables microfinance providers (‘intermediaries’) participating in the program in the eu to grant more loans. it is deplorable that, in times of economic crisis, the impact of this instrument on employment creation and on social and territorial cohesion was less than initially expected. hence, this report stresses the need to strengthen the efficiency of the facility by improving information and data about this instrument, by enlarging its geographical scope, by providing a simplified access to its beneficiaries and to potentially excluded clients. therefore, i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility because it is neither complete nor substantiated. i also refer to the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 14 december 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report, although referring to a very important support mechanism, nevertheless tries to make illegal immigrants the target group of this mechanism instead of being interested in the problems of european citizens.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility, which is primarily a social policy tool that facilitates access to microfinance for the creation and support of micro-enterprises. the european market is currently facing significant problems and the demand for microcredit from people who are unable to obtain loans from the traditional banking sector is greater than ever.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the main objective of the report on a new common fisheries policy is to improve fishing techniques and to try to simplify the legislative framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting because the present report is moving in the right direction and is trying to solve the long-standing problems created by the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is moving in the right direction in order to solve the longstanding problems concerning the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the new cfp and the structure of technical measures and multiannual plans because in my view it is neither complete nor well-founded. i also refer to the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 14 december 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report is moving in the right direction to solve the longstanding problems concerning the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the european commission's proposal for a european border guard corps deals with extremely serious issues such as refugees, migration and the question of the union's external borders. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the vital interests of the member states in protecting their territorial integrity, as well as the fundamental rights of persons, are respected. the commission proposes to give this new european body a stronger role in the cooperation of the member states with their non-union neighbours, including joint ventures in the territory of either these states or the member states of the union. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european border guard corps' responsibilities and action are in line with the requirements of article 21 of the treaty on european union on respect for the principles of international law. this applies in particular to cooperation with the authorities of third states outside the union which in practice show a lack of respect for international law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the threat of a major oil spill. the control of the external borders of the union must therefore be carried out in such a way as to stop and not to continue the increase in the tragedies of mass drowning that we have seen in recent years in the mediterranean. finally, we must realize that the refugee and migrant problem is not effectively tackled at the union's borders, but in the countries of origin of the people. the european union must help to create conditions for a basic human existence and to restore the lost balance.
the commission madam president, it was logical that the ineffective, limited operational capacity and unreliable frontex would be replaced at some point by some other force - the coast guard, the border guard, i do not know what they will be called - which will intervene when it decides to do so. we are therefore going to have a complete transfer of sovereignty. and i ask: what will be the mission of this force? you're setting up checkpoints in turkey? will it control the turkish border so that it does not send illegal immigrants to greece? will he arrest the smugglers? is he going to apply the rules of engagement, which is to fire three shots in the air and then, if the ship keeps moving, fire at the ship? if it doesn't do those things, why build it? if it does, how will it differ from the armed forces of the countries? i would also like to ask something of my compatriot, commissioner avramopoulos, in his former capacity as minister of defence of greece. what will you say, mr. avramopoulos, to the soldiers of the army who daily and under adverse circumstances guard our borders from evros to epirus and macedonia? what about the navy and coast guard cadets who sail to control the country's borders? what do you say to the eagles of the air, our pilots who are constantly intercepting the turks and, if they had not been calm, would have brought down half the turkish air force? what do you say to the cops who are sacrificing their lives to keep us safe? finally, what would you say to the widows and orphans of these people? that we gave your men and your fathers as guinea pigs to the european union's sorcerer apprentices? (the president cut the speaker off) (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr aguilar, there is obviously no contradiction, because every state has an obligation to protect its borders and this can be done for my country, greece, and for all countries, if the armed forces of these countries are allowed to guard their borders as they know and as they have been trained to do. so there is no contradiction. we do not need a european coast guard or border guard. she'll be completely unreliable and completely out of the spirit of any mission.
the commission madam president, the plan to establish a european border guard is a sneaky backdoor attempt to usurp the sovereign right of the member states of the european union to guard their borders. the protection of the borders, especially for greece, is a vital issue because of the proximity to turkey and also to skopje and albania, countries which have expressed doubts about our territorial integrity. greece has no land border with the schengen countries. and yet, under the pretext of dealing with the refugee flows, the european border and coast guard now has the right to act autonomously and independently on the greek border, even in the event of disagreement with the greek government. the commission's proposal is that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the commission should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000.
the commission madam president, the upgrading of frontex or the new military eu border guard is intensifying repression against the victims of the imperialist interventions of the eu, the us and nato and against the millions of refugees who have fled, so that it can send them back to the hell of war, at the same time as the imperialists are escalating these very wars. the number of refugees is increasing, greece is becoming a dumping ground for the impoverished, fences are being erected in one country after another, border control is being transferred to the european union mechanisms without the agreement of the member states. for greece, this means promoting the co-administration of the aegean with turkey and challenging its sovereign rights under the seal of the european union and nato, amidst competition and bargaining by the bourgeoisie and monopoly groups. the smart borders of the european union are opening and closing to provide cheap labour to capital, to put downward pressure on all wages, to throw the surplus into the sewer. the peoples will resist this barbarity and will fight to abolish dublin, schengen, frontex, to create humane conditions for refugees and migrants, to ensure that they are transported directly to their countries of destination.
s & d) and the i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. it is not possible to have a european country which believes that there are no european borders. yes, it was my country for the first six months because of the bigotry of our ministers. is it possible for a country to have no administrative capacity to implement its commitments? yes, when the new minister mobilized the state, he discovered that our services could not, despite the sacrifice of our people, carry out our commitments. is it possible for a country to be unsure whether it has the resources to implement its commitments? yes, and just in november we called for the activation of the european civil protection mechanism, for tents, blankets, toilets. we can't go through this again. 2016 should be the year we implement the permanent relocation mechanism. the time when we can offer decent reception to all refugees coming to europe. it is the time when we will have a complete and comprehensive record of all who enter the union. we must do this to reduce the gap between words and deeds.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in our efforts to deal with the uncontrolled refugee crisis, which has far outstripped us, it is necessary to seek immediate and effective solutions, which will contribute with humanity, solidarity and respect both to better refugee management and to improving the eu's internal security. in this struggle, the safeguarding of the schengen area, which is part of the refugee solution, is of paramount importance. the proposal for a comprehensive system for the management of the eu's external borders, with the creation of a european border and coast guard, is a positive step towards protecting the union's interests, but it is also necessary for the member states to contribute to its operation by cooperating. in the last 11 months, more than 1,565,000 refugees and migrants have made their way to europe, and this trend is expected to continue. my country, greece, is among the member states most affected by this unprecedented influx, as it is estimated that more than 790,000 third-country nationals have recently arrived by sea. such a service will help preventative and enforcement countries, such as greece, to better coordinate operations between member states and to identify weaknesses in border guarding in good time.
the commission madam president, despite the big words and the staged pictures, this agreement is nothing but empty words. first, the objective of keeping global temperature rise to below two degrees celsius is insufficient. even if countries manage to do this, no one can guarantee that the warming will be reversed or stopped. moreover, no one is absolutely sure about how nature actually works on climate change. today, for example, the weather service predicted rain in strasbourg, but it was a sunny day. as long as the multinationals are destroying huge swathes of rainforest every day, as long as china and india are rampantly destroying the environment, you can be sure that with electric cars and wind turbines there is no chance of us achieving anything. as long as fossil fuels are the cheapest source of energy, plans like the one agreed in paris will have no effect. in conclusion, we ask for action, not words: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of deforestation, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s & d) and the mr president, for the first time, a climate agreement has been signed by 195 countries, whereas the kyoto protocol, for example, was signed by only 38 countries. it also ensures at least 100 billion in financing for the least developed countries by 2020. this makes it possible for them to switch to less polluting technologies without jeopardizing their living standards. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, expressed its concern at the situation in the middle east. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the absence of sanctions for non-compliance is an open question which makes civil society the main actor of control and pressure. the european parliament must therefore take initiatives to raise awareness of the value of combating climate change through a new environmental ethic that we must adopt.
the commission the rapid climate change that the planet is experiencing is due to the distorted production and consumption model that has prevailed. the decision of the un conference on climate change in paris does not provide a clear framework for dealing with the phenomenon and its devastating consequences. it is unacceptable that, while the large european states and their companies are part of the problem, they should finally be able to enrich themselves in the name of so-called ecology by exporting so-called clean technologies to developing countries. another huge political shortcoming of the agreement is the lack of any reference to the climate refugee regime. the number of refugees is estimated at 166 million for the period 2008-2013 alone, and unfortunately this number is set to increase. the climate refugee regime must be institutionalized immediately and future climate refugees must be allocated among states on the basis of size and population, but mainly on the basis of each country's historical cumulative contribution to carbon dioxide emissions. the countries of the north, germany and france, must assume their responsibilities so that the european south and greece are not turned into a repository for climate refugees.
ecr), in writing. mr president, the effectiveness of the tax system is based on transparency, coordination and convergence of policies on corporate taxation in the eu. however, in many eu member states there are 'aggressive tax planning' practices as well as intra-group transactions and corporate tax evasion and tax avoidance, resulting in a loss of tax revenues of between eur 50-70 billion per year. these 'intra-corporate' transactions have also enabled multinational companies to avoid taxation, with the result that their profits are taxed at minimal rates in the corresponding tax havens. of course, this has resulted in a reduction in tax revenues in the countries where they make their profits. it is therefore clear that such practices are against transparency in the field of taxation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion in the member states. in addition, there is a need for automatic exchange of information on the various financial activities. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the profits of each company should be taxed in the country where they are made.
the commission madam president, china is a strategic partner of the european union. for some decades now, german and other european multinationals have been outsourcing their production to china, in order to reduce labour costs, and this has led to a steep rise in unemployment in europe. the european union and the governments of its member states then turned a blind eye to the massive human rights violations in china. over the decades, china has evolved into the second most powerful economy in the world and aspires to achieve a new division of labor and a redistribution of spheres of influence and exploitation in africa and other parts of the planet. now, the european union has started to uncover human rights violations in china and to shed crocodile tears for chinese activists. relations between the european union and china should be based on the principle of peaceful coexistence, cooperation based on mutual benefit, protection of human and labour rights.
the commission madam president, i would like to put a point of order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask this because i have been here since 3 p.m. and for various reasons the presidency has not given me the floor on a number of occasions. i would like to know whether you will follow the rule of giving the floor to one person from each group or, if there are only two or three colleagues in the room who may be from the same group, whether you will give the floor without restriction, because if you are going to follow the tactic you have followed before, then i may not participate and leave the room.
the commission madam president, in the current financial crisis, we are seeing labour mobility being presented as the necessary solution to tackling unemployment. according to the european employment services network, eures, workers from eu member states who have the possibility of professional mobility to another eu country will be subject to the labour and social security legislation of the host country and not the country of origin. according to one study, germany will need up to 490 000 workers from eu countries each year to maintain its current levels of prosperity. the european union is already unhappy that only 700 000 people moved within the rest of the european union in the second half of 2015 to find work. finally, this attitude of the european union towards labour mobility is in contrast to the attitude of some member states which do not want such mobility.
the commission madam president, today in the european union there are over eighty million people who are facing some form of disability. we therefore consider the initiative to adopt a european directive on the accessibility of disabled people to education, commerce and employment to be important, which will strengthen social justice. according to eurostat data, a person of working age has a 66% chance of finding a job, while for a person with a severe disability the chance drops to 25%. in my country, greece, the proportion of disabled people is 10% of the population, while according to elstat 84% of disabled people in my country are outside the labour market. the memorandum and austerity policies further weakened the disabled as they were targeted by the troika which reduced their welfare benefits and disability pensions which now range between 250 and 540 euros, thus leading to social exclusion for the disabled. thank you, sir.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. it turns out that institutions, elected or not, are incapable of understanding and providing the right solutions. when the economic crisis in greece caught them unprepared to deal with it, they altruistically proposed greece's exit from the monetary union, with the non-paper schäuble, at a eurogroup meeting. unable to control the flow of migrants, most countries are erecting fences and unilaterally abolishing the schengen treaty, while some are discussing greece's exit from it. jihadists are killing innocent people, and you've decided to give 3 billion euros to turkey, which is helping, arming, negotiating with the islamic state. i therefore urge you to accept turkey in europe and all your problems will be solved automatically. the continuing misjudgments lead to the need to find scapegoats and defendants. the countries of europe - take a look at this - can only be freed from this chatter by nationalist governments.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is now common knowledge that the european coast and border guard, the new frontex, will have the first and last word in the management and protection of the greek borders. the new frontex will have the right to intervene unilaterally in cases of crisis caused by refugee flows at the greek-turkish and greek-scottish borders. the new frontex is a state within a state and will have the right to decide unilaterally to intervene on the territory of the member states, and therefore also on that of greece, assisted either by bavarian, german and french border guards, as mr weber wanted, or by forces from third countries, such as turkey and skopje. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new frontex system is not used to the detriment of the people of greece. if greece has to choose between ceding its sovereign rights to guard its borders in order to remain in schengen, then it must choose to leave schengen, here and now.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the proposal to extend the mandate of the president of the european banking authority is a formal procedure without any particular extension. but since i was opposed to the creation and operation of this authority from the outset, i preferred to abstain from voting on this proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we oppose the extension of the mandate because the person in question does not meet the conditions required for the post in question.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba) because the person in question does not fulfil the conditions required for this post.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i do not agree with the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the person concerned does not fulfil the conditions required for the post in question.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the proposal to extend the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is a formal procedure without any particular extension. but since i was opposed to the creation and operation of this authority from the outset, i preferred to abstain from voting on this proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we oppose the extension of the mandate because the person in question does not meet the conditions required for the post in question.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because the person in question does not fulfil the conditions required for this position.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i do not agree with the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the person concerned does not fulfil the conditions required for the post in question.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the proposal to extend the term of office of the president of the european securities and markets authority is a formal procedure with no particular implications. but since i was opposed to the creation and operation of this authority from the outset, i preferred to abstain from voting on this proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we oppose the extension of the mandate because the person in question does not meet the conditions required for the post in question.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the extension of the mandate of the chairman of the european securities and markets authority (esma) because the person in question does not fulfil the conditions required for this position.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i do not agree with the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the person concerned does not fulfil the conditions required for the post in question.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the conclusion of the operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol is proposed on the basis of the europol regulation as it is currently in force. however, the european parliament and the council have entered into informal negotiations on a new regulation for europol, in which the conclusion of international agreements and the related provisions and guarantees for the protection of the personal data of european citizens are increased compared to those currently in force. the informal negotiations are close to completion and therefore it would be much preferable for the proposed international agreement to be concluded after the entry into force of the new regulation in order to ensure fundamental rights more effectively. that is why i voted against this proposal.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the bosnia and herzegovina is not a state in which fundamental rights, the rule of law, the independence of the press and the media are respected and protected. it is a transit station and training base for jihadists, a hotbed of islamic extremists, a country where money is laundered and where human trafficking flourishes, a state in general disintegration because of the differences between the federations (serbs, croats and bogomils). in this context, any strategic cooperation involves risks, especially when it comes to the exchange of classified information and personal data. i therefore vote against this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the draft council decision on the approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, because it is neither complete nor substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the bosnia and herzegovina is not a state in which fundamental rights, the rule of law, the independence of the press and the media are respected and protected. it is a transit station and a training ground for jihadists, a hotbed of islamic extremists, a country where money is laundered, where human trafficking flourishes and which is generally in the process of disintegration because of the differences between the federations (serbs, croats and bogomils). in this context, any strategic cooperation involves risks, especially when it comes to the exchange of classified information and personal data.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of ireland is a legitimate move to address the problems posed by the constantly changing conditions of global competition. as this globalisation adjustment fund is by definition intended to support groups of people who are facing labour problems as a result of globalisation, i think that this proposal is a reasonable one and should be supported for the benefit of workers in areas of ireland. that is why i voted for it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the irish authorities have submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf of eur 442 293 for 108 redundant workers. ireland plans to use this money for training and further education programmes, mentoring, career planning and development and higher education programmes for the displaced. the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we do not need skilled unemployed people, and that is why i am voting against this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the money from the adaptation fund should be given mainly to the displaced and not to reintegration or retraining programmes. we don't need skilled unemployed.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund - ireland's request egf/2015/006 ie/pwa international because i consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be an important european support tool for workers affected by the consequences of globalisation. the countries of the european south, which are facing the greatest problem, should make full use of the provisions of this fund.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the objection under article 106 of the regulation on the list of invasive alien species is a technical proposal of great importance because it aims to maintain important balances in europe's natural environment. however, the commission did not follow the procedures and the choice of species appears to have been made on political or economic grounds, as the most important foreign species are absent from this list. i therefore decided to abstain from the vote.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because the commission is once again overstepping its bounds, endangering the balance of european ecosystems.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i reject the objection under article 106 of the regulation on the list of invasive alien species because i believe that the commission is once again exceeding the limits of its powers by endangering the balance of european ecosystems.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the commission is once again overstepping its bounds, endangering the balance of european ecosystems.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the article 106 objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25 is a positive step as it is part of the initiatives to oppose the use of genetically modified organisms. as i have already expressed my opposition to any use of such bodies, i have decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting because the commission is acting as a promoter and at the same time a pawn of the multinational food companies, while no one can estimate how many lives have been lost or will be lost because of its actions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i reject the article 106 objection to the approval of the genetically modified maize nk603xt25, because the commission acts as both promoter and subcontractor to the multinational food companies, and no one can estimate how many lives have been or will be lost because of its actions.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 t25 pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council, because it is complete and well-founded and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 14/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the commission acts as both a promoter and a subcontractor to multinational food companies, and no one can estimate how many lives have been or will be lost as a result of its actions.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on achieving transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union concerns the union as a whole. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a single currency is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report with recommendations to the commission on achieving transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union because it seeks to tackle tax evasion and tax fraud by filling regulatory gaps with international tax equivalents.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on achieving transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate taxation policies in the union, because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report aims to tackle tax evasion and tax fraud by filling regulatory gaps with international tax equivalents.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the whole text is negative because, in my view, the eu should first create an independent foreign policy, exploiting its power and then intervene in the internal affairs of other countries, and in particular powers such as china. i would like to draw attention to the paragraphs calling on china to intervene and condemn both al-assad and russia over the ukraine issue.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on eu-china relations because i believe that the eu must first create an independent foreign policy, exploiting its power and then intervene in the internal affairs of other countries and especially powers such as china. i would like to draw attention to the paragraphs calling on china to intervene and condemn both al-assad and russia over the ukraine issue.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on eu-china relations because it is neither complete nor well-documented. i also vote for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 15/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu must first create an independent foreign policy, exploiting its power, and then intervene in the internal affairs of other countries and especially powers such as china. i am particularly concerned about the paragraphs calling on china to intervene and condemn assad and russia over the ukraine issue.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu-china relations, as it presents the framework for cooperation in a realistic way. the eu-china strategic partnership is indeed very important. china is a major international power and one of the eu's most important partners. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit touches on a number of issues relating to the long-term objectives we want to set for the development of our society. although on the whole it is a positive effort, in practice it contains elements which promote private interests and for this reason i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the humanitarian crisis is being created and exacerbated by the policies of the great powers, which are aimed primarily at strengthening their roles on the world chessboard. economic interests, the pursuit of wealth and the increase of geopolitical and geostrategic position are the main causes of conflicts, crises and wars, as well as of the deterioration of the environment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, etc. however, any approach to humanitarian aid must pay particular attention to the specificities of the area concerned and respect the cultural values and culture of the respective population groups. the private sector's involvement in humanitarian aid and humanitarian crisis management should be ancillary and not profit-driven to the detriment of the objectives pursued.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the humanitarian crisis is basically created and exacerbated by the policies of the great powers, which are aimed primarily at strengthening their roles on the world chessboard. economic interests, the pursuit of wealth and the strengthening of geopolitical and geostrategic positions are the main causes of conflicts, crises and wars, as well as of environmental degradation. the provision of well-structured, coordinated and effective humanitarian assistance by all countries, international bodies and organisations is essential. however, any approach to humanitarian aid must pay particular attention to the specificities of the area concerned and respect the cultural values and culture of the population groups concerned. the private sector's involvement in humanitarian aid and humanitarian crisis management should be ancillary and not profit-driven to the detriment of the objectives pursued. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to set out the european parliament position towards the whs in order to influence the eu’s common position on the summit. among our amendments were those highlighting climate change, inequalities and economic violence as root causes of the humanitarian crisis, stressing the need for especial protection of women and girls and lgtbi people, and calling for the need to ensure women and girls access to the full range of sexual and reproductive health services, including safe abortions. however, the report calls for further cooperation between private sector actors in humanitarian actions, and for instance calls on the eu to explore and encourage partnerships with start-ups, and with insurance and technology companies, amongst others, with a view to developing tools for preparedness and deployment in emergencies. the report calls on the member states to better integrate business into their respective national emergency response plans. being also the shadow rapporteur i voted abstention.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report entitled 'preparing for the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid' and refer back to the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 15/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the humanitarian crisis is being created and exacerbated, basically, by the policies of the great powers, which are aimed primarily at strengthening themselves on the world chessboard. economic interests, the pursuit of wealth and the strengthening of geopolitical and geostrategic positions are the main causes of conflicts, crises and wars, as well as of environmental degradation. it is essential that there be properly structured, coordinated and effective humanitarian aid from all countries and from international bodies and organisations. however, any approach to the provision of humanitarian aid must pay particular attention to the specific features of the area concerned and respect the cultural values and culture of the respective population groups. the private sector's involvement in humanitarian aid and humanitarian crisis management should be ancillary and not profit-driven to the respective undertakings, so as not to be detrimental to the objectives pursued.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i too voted in favour of the report on 'preparing for the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid'. the world today is facing humanitarian crises unprecedented in number, scale and duration. the figures show the scale of the problem and the limited funding resources are exacerbating the consequences of humanitarian crises. the eu must take a leading role in the world humanitarian summit, showing unity but also presenting realistic proposals to address future humanitarian crises.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry provides a positive basis for the development of policy actions to support the sector. although there are some negative elements, i decided to vote in favour, considering that businesses and workers in this sector in europe have suffered enough in recent years due to the turmoil in the economy and any initiative to revive business activity will work to the benefit of all.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because we believe that this report fails to address the ongoing and major problem of the european base metal industries, which is unfair competition from china.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry because i believe that this report fails to propose a solution to the ongoing and major problem of european base metal industries, which is unfair competition from china.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is dealing with the challenges that the european base metals industry is facing. historically, the european steel sector has played a key role in the development of the overall economy. however, the sector is struggling nowadays with a significant drop in demand and a strong global competition, as the main multinational groups that own this industry are moving their investments to third world countries where the production is cheaper. consequently, it is important to continue modernise in order for this sector to regain its global competitiveness and meet the social and environmental challenges. the report calls for political action on this matter, it stresses the need for the base metals industries to adapt to the new climate scenarios and for the eu to equip itself with flexible and responsive trade protection measures. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry because it is comprehensive and well-founded, and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/11/2015.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, including the paragraph on the carbon border adjustment mechanism for imports and exports. the application of the border adjustment mechanism will ensure a level playing field between european and non-european producers, both at the internal market level and at the export level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind in the face of the economic crisis. the commission also found that the average price of the product concerned in the union market was higher than the average price of the product concerned in the union market. compared to the pre-crisis levels in 2007, domestic demand decreased by 82%. we are now at the level of 1962. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to restore the viability of the greek economy. the situation is dramatic for those working in this nerve centre of greek industry. it is necessary to exhaust all possibilities for reducing energy costs and for safeguarding fair competition between european and foreign steel industries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report fails to address the evolving and major problem of the european base metal industries, which is none other than unfair competition from china.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the new resolution on the situation in hungary describes and condemns the developments since the previous resolution in june, notably in the area of asylum and border control, and describes the serious and systematic deterioration of the rule of law and fundamental rights over the last few years. it also criticised the commission and the council for not taking action on the previous european parliament resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the resolution refers to the adoption by hungary of a series of amendments to asylum legislation, the criminal code, criminal procedure, border legislation, police legislation and national defence legislation to protect the country from migration flows. it is considered that these amendments render the national legislation no longer in conformity with the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights; i believe that the european union should not intervene in the internal affairs of countries, especially in matters of security.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i believe that the european union should not interfere in the internal affairs of countries, especially in matters of security. for this reason, my vote was against all reports on the situation in hungary, including the one following the european parliament resolution of 10 june 2015.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the report on the situation in hungary because it is neither complete nor substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group in the european parliament condemns the reactionary and anti-people policy of the hungarian bourgeois government which targets refugees and immigrants and attacks workers' and people's rights and freedoms in order to serve the interests of the monopolies. similar anti-people attacks are being made on workers by the bourgeois governments and the eu in all its member states. the joint resolution of the social democrats, the gue, the liberals and the greens, however, hypocritically uses the reactionary hungarian government to legitimize the eu and its institutions and the subjection of the peoples to the chains of the euro-road and to deprive this imperialist transnational union of capital of its role as the supposed guardian of popular freedoms, the 'honourable' and the instrument for enforcing the 'democratic values' and 'principles' of the eu, that is, the interests of the bourgeoisie. the kke does not legitimize and does not recognize any right to call itself the defender of the people's rights and freedoms, the eu, the governments and the parties of the bourgeois administration that crush the life and rights of the working people. only the hungarian people, like any other people, has the exclusive right to overturn the anti-people policies, to free itself by its own strength and struggle from the shackles of capital's exploitation and its wolf alliances and to take into its own hands the power and the wealth it produces.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the european union must not interfere in the internal affairs of countries, especially in matters of internal security.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the kke group in the european parliament condemns the reactionary and anti-people policy of the hungarian bourgeois government which targets refugees and immigrants and attacks workers' and people's rights and freedoms in order to serve the interests of the monopolies. similar anti-people attacks are being made on workers by the bourgeois governments and the eu in all its member states. the joint resolution of the social democrats, the gue, the liberals and the greens, however, hypocritically uses the reactionary hungarian government to legitimize the eu and its institutions and the subjection of the peoples to the chains of the euro-road and to deprive this imperialist transnational union of capital of its role as the supposed guardian of popular freedoms, the 'honourable' and the instrument for enforcing the 'democratic values' and 'principles' of the eu, that is, the interests of the bourgeoisie. the kke does not legitimize and does not recognize any right to call itself the defender of the people's rights and freedoms, the eu, the governments and the parties of the bourgeois administration that crush the life and rights of the working people. only the hungarian people, like any other people, has the exclusive right to overturn the anti-people policies, to free itself by its own strength and struggle from the shackles of capital's exploitation and its wolf alliances and to take into its own hands the power and the wealth it produces.
the commission mr president, the european union is particularly interested in the protection of human rights and democracy around the world and is making sure that this issue dominates its discussions with third countries. that's the right thing to do. the only thing the european union is not interested in is protecting the human rights of european citizens in its member states. in greece and other countries of southern europe, in spain for example, a large number of people have lost their homes because they cannot pay their debts to the banks because of the unacceptable austerity measures imposed in those countries. in greece, the provocation of international loan sharks has reached an unacceptable level. the homes of the poor greeks are being seized to be given to and occupied by the illegal immigrants who have flooded the country by the hundreds of thousands. the greek homeless even want to be put in a container. the european union is aware of this unacceptable situation?
the commission mr president, human rights violations are not a phenomenon exclusive to poor countries but are increasingly occurring within the european union, particularly in countries where a memorandum has been imposed. the commission, which is also a member of the troika, in answer to a question on this subject, admits that human rights are not protected under memoranda because they are not, allegedly, related to european union law. the merkel austerity, which the european commission is serving with religious piety, is leading to a massive and persistent violation of the human rights of the citizens of the union. the european parliament has been a party to the agreements on the free movement of persons, and the european parliament has been a party to the agreements on the free movement of persons. the technocratic, authoritarian perversion of democracy through the invention of a state of emergency imposed sometimes by the terrorist threat and sometimes by the economic crisis should seriously worry the members of the european parliament. the commission should therefore first ensure that human rights are protected within the european union before it lectures the rest of the world.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to ask you, mr president, if you agree that the complaints are being made at the instigation of some ngos and lawyers who are profiting at the expense of immigrants and that their suspicious role should be checked?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, in recent weeks there has been an alarming increase in reports by international human rights organisations of ill-treatment of migrants and refugees by the police authorities of eastern european member states of the union, as well as by the authorities of turkey. the european union must defend its constitutional values, namely fundamental rights and the rule of law, and condemn any violation of these values, wherever it may come from. we must not forget that refugees are not criminals, but have left their homes out of fear of persecution or in search of a better life. we must find a fair balance between the protection of the external borders, which is necessary to prevent criminal acts, and the protection of fundamental rights. the union must also do all it can to bring about peace and order in its region, and in particular in the middle east, in compliance with international law, so as to put an end to the forced displacement of people.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this year, 2015, we are celebrating 65 years since the adoption of the european convention on human rights, in the shadow of war, terrorism and thousands of refugees. the repression, police violence against refugees, the fences, the creation of hotspots and concentration camps are a disgrace to the european union and its member states. they refer to other, dark periods of europe that no democratic citizen wants to relive. the dublin system is a violation of rights, countries such as italy and greece have been turned into human warehouses and the question of the present and future of europe, with the decisions that have been adopted, is becoming more and more painful. for example, does the creation of the new frontex guarantee the rights of asylum seekers? secondly, against whom will those who have been wronged or mistreated have recourse? thirdly, how are national sovereign rights guaranteed? the european union is moving too far in international law, shifting responsibilities and targeting its member states. the political responsibilities and the guilt of the european union cannot be concealed under the pressure of petty political interests, nationalist enclosures and extreme rhetoric.
the commission mr president, greece is being overrun by thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants. more than 500 000 refugees have entered my country. i visited samos last summer, i visited the greek border on eidos last sunday, i will visit mytilene on saturday, so i have a picture of what is happening on the spot, and i can tell you that the greek people, who have been impoverished by the memoranda, have made superhuman efforts to welcome thousands of refugees. the criticism of greece is not only unfair but also hypocritical. the number of refugees and migrants has increased many times over since mrs merkel invited refugees to germany. of the 160 000 refugees to be relocated, states have started procedures for only 2 000 of the migrants and of the 28 states only 8 have responded. the european union must therefore assume its responsibilities, particularly those responsible for the wars in the middle east.
the commission i have heard your statement, mr president, in which you said that we have the right to propose whatever we think is appropriate until eight o'clock. i think that this is not a democratic procedure because, as you can see, there are very few members present, you have given us an hour, and i think that these procedures are not appropriate for a parliament. i think that there should be a time limit and i also think that, at the moment when we do not have much participation and you tell us that we have to make a specific proposal within an hour, you should look at the matter again.
the commission mr president, twenty years after dayton and the nato imperialist intervention that led to the protectorate of bosnia-herzegovina, life has confirmed the communists who said that the peace of the imperialists - with a pistol at their head - brings the peoples nothing but imperialist wars, poverty, ethnic divisions and refugees. from bosnia-herzegovina, from the dirty war in yugoslavia, to today in syria, ukraine, libya, iraq and elsewhere, the imperialists are re-painting the borders with the blood of the peoples. the so-called 'border guard' without the agreement of the member states, which the european union is promoting with its new border guard, is creating great risks. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples, a union of peoples. the peoples in their struggle must not accept to shed their blood for the monopolies. the people must determine their own destiny, with their own power, with a break from the european union and nato.
the commission mr president, after the violent disintegration of yugoslavia caused by german and american interests and the implementation of the 'divide and rule' principle, twenty years after the signing of the dayton peace agreement, the situation in bosnia-herzegovina is exactly as it was at the beginning of the war in 1992. there is a country with economic erosion, with hatred and ethnic divisions and a dysfunctional state where corruption and lawlessness thrive. we are talking about bosnia-herzegovina's accession to the union while the agreement is in force - which is paradoxical and impossible. twenty years later, the agreement still defines the country's political and institutional framework but it urgently needs to be revised because, while it would have prevented further conflict, it has nonetheless frozen rather than resolved it. indeed, how is it possible for the orthodox serbs to get along with the catholic croats and the fanatical muslim bosnians who are directly financed by turkey and saudi arabia? bosnia-herzegovina must be abolished as a single state and croats and serbs must be reunited with their mother countries. the european union must not allow the turkish government to continue to use its influence in the region to create a new islamic state in europe.
the commission madam president, arms exports are one of the serious issues that the european union must address with particular attention, since developments over the last two years have shown that arms end up either in the hands of terrorists, in the hands of repressive regimes or in countries where minors are recruited and used in hostilities, as is the case in many african countries, in nigeria and elsewhere. i have repeatedly denounced in the european parliament's plenary session here in strasbourg the continued supply of arms and ammunition from turkey to daesh, which is known to be destroying syria and is responsible for the terrorist attacks in paris and elsewhere. turkey is also providing arms to the jihadists in libya. the european union must immediately take a number of measures to establish a framework for arms exports so that their fate can finally be controlled. at the same time, measures must be taken to protect civilians, as it is estimated that about half a million people a year lose their lives in armed conflicts.
the commission madam president, arms exports from the european union are a serious and complex matter with many dimensions and specificities, because they concern both the european union's economy and the promotion and implementation of the objectives of the common european defence and security policy. i am aware of the common position adopted by the member states on this subject, but i think that this position will remain a mere wish list. when the european union is made up of germany, france and the united kingdom, which are global arms suppliers and competitors, on the one hand, and greece and cyprus, which are threatened by turkey with war and are therefore obliged to arm themselves constantly, on the other hand, how can the common position be implemented? who will carry out and, more importantly, who will receive actual checks? how can there be transparency and, if there is no transparency, how can there be no illicit shipment of small arms and ammunition to isis, the kurds and other terrorist organizations? the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international negotiations, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe.
the commission the new partnership between the european union and vietnam is particularly important for european multinationals which have established themselves and invested in vietnam, where, of course, starvation wages are in force. at the same time, basic labour and social rights are not respected in vietnam, particularly in its factories, and child labour is on the rise. in addition, corruption, human rights violations, persecution of christians are on the agenda. the european union-vietnam partnership agreement and the free trade agreement will affect the vulnerable sector of small and mediumsized enterprises in the member states of the union and increase unemployment. vietnam must establish the rule of law, respect freedom of expression, freedom of religion and freedom of the press, and the european union for its part should not, in the name of profitability for european companies, turn a blind eye to human rights violations in vietnam, much more so when the partnership itself is acting only in the interests of big business.
the commission mr president, the recent decision by the european patent office to patent the characteristics of plant varieties developed by biological processes is totally unacceptable. this decision is a threat to food production and food security by undermining food availability. it is a development which could lead to a monopoly of certain parts of the food market and give the real culprit of agricultural production to the multinational agro-food companies, while at the same time crushing small and mediumsized farmers and livestock farmers to the benefit of the large producers in germany and france. the large multinationals are using patents to make extra profits and to determine economic developments in agriculture and livestock farming, regardless of the fact that they are marginalizing small farmers and depriving societies and citizens of useful agricultural goods, which are now being turned into very expensive consumer products. the european union must intervene immediately. thank you, sir.
the debate is closed. i have received four motions for resolutions with a view to calling off this debate, pursuant to rule 123 of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place today, thursday 17 december, at 12 noon. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the commission mr. president, ibrahim halawa is a young irish-egyptian who has been held since 2013 in a cairo prison along with 493 other people, charged with a host of criminal offenses including destruction and destruction of public property and even murders of civilians. according to the european union's information, mr halawa's human rights have been violated because he has been detained for two years without a trial, because he has been tortured, because he has been denied access to medical care and, finally, because he faces the risk of the death penalty, despite the fact that he was only seventeen when he was arrested. for its part, egypt states that mr halawa's human rights have not been violated, mentions the crimes he has committed and suggests that he will receive a fair trial and that, if necessary, the president of the republic will release him from serving the remainder of his sentence when the outcome of the trial is announced. the halawa case is one of many cases of human rights violations around the world. it is my view that the european union's awareness and mobilisation, combined with the fact that the halawa case is being closely followed by the staff of the irish consulate in cairo, will result in mr halawa's release regardless of the outcome of the trial. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is not only a member of the european union, but it is also a member of the european union. what we should be interested in is finding and treating and vindicating many cases of people who look like mr halawa's but are not yet known. finally, the european union should ensure that the rights of european citizens are not violated in its member states, as has happened in our country, greece, as you know very well, with our own party as a victim.
the commission mr president, we are discussing the irish national ibrahim halawa, a citizen of the european union who is facing the death penalty in egypt for his participation in a demonstration in cairo. the egyptian authorities have not yet proceeded with halawa's trial, as it is continuously postponed, with the possibility of the death penalty if convicted. in addition, he has already been detained for two years. we therefore call on the egyptian authorities to release ibrahim halawa and we support the struggle of our irish colleagues, and we also stress, mr president, that the european union must seek to abolish the death penalty where it is applied and to ask those countries which still apply it to comply with international standards.
mr president, this is the point where there is, in principle, absolute agreement among all members on the situation in the maldives and that it is necessary to deal with the matter and not just talk about it. i agree with what has been said here, i just want to emphasize as a person who observes and studies the state of the rule of law in different countries of the world that the legal situation in the maldives is deteriorating significantly, that the judiciary there is simply objectively under the influence of the current president and that the former democratically elected president nasheed was removed, among other things, because he pointed out corrupt judges. that was one of the reasons he was removed from office at the time. i also point out that under the current governments, the current set of governments, the attorney general has been unlawfully removed from office. so there is no law in the maldives and we should not just talk about it, but i join other colleagues who say that this must have an impact on relations between the european union and the maldives and that our tourists should not go to the maldives and that we should freeze the assets of the maldivian authorities and prevent the access of the maldivian authorities to the countries of the european union.
the commission mr president, the maldives, this earthly tourist paradise for european and american holidaymakers, is in fact a hell for human rights. the country's president had declared a state of emergency, which has since been lifted due to diplomatic pressure. the young democratic regime in the maldives, established in 2008, remains extremely unstable and fragile, while the threat of jihadists in the country is real. the state of emergency was declared almost simultaneously with the organization of anti-government protests due to the imprisonment of the country's former president. the european states should not interfere in the internal affairs of third countries. the maldives has been the victim of a series of terrorist attacks, including the bombing of the maldives airport in may last year. european citizens should be aware that the idyllic beaches in the maldives are only the tip of the iceberg, the unseen side of which includes human rights violations, poverty, social misery and the imposition of an islamic state where sharia law is applied.
the commission there is no doubt that the situation in malaysia is not good at all and that it is not in any way consistent with european principles and values as each of us understands them. indeed, malaysia is rapidly evolving into a police state with restricted freedom of expression, political persecution and fabricated accusations. moreover, corruption is taking on frightening proportions. but in any case, no one has appointed the union as a world watchdog, nor has anyone given it the power to intervene, and that too openly, in the internal affairs of independent third states. we have neither the absolute truth nor can we say that all this is not happening in the countries of europe. we have political prosecutions, we have fabricated charges directed against political opponents, we have interference in justice, we have false witnesses in abundance, and we grant immunity according to the political beliefs of each individual. as for corruption, every few months we have a new scandal in europe, with money disappearing, undeclared, and gifts from big companies. i therefore think it is too much to point fingers at the whole world, still clinging to post-colonial complexes, without having first of all put our own house in order. finally, if we really want to pressure malaysia or any other country to respect human rights and civil liberties, let's try another way. let us cut off all trade with that country and all financial aid, since there are corrupt political officials, as you say, and there is a risk of money being appropriated, and let us prohibit the big european multinationals from any activity in that country, if we have the courage. otherwise, keep your hypocrisy within european borders.
mr. chairman, i want to support my speakers on the human rights issue in malaysia. i'm concerned with the rule of law in the individual states of the world. i have to say, malaysia is not even close to being a model of the rule of law. it's been mentioned here. for example, the disruptive activities act was passed in 1948, during the malaysian colonial era. this law clearly allows anyone to be prosecuted for verbal criticism of the government. recently, during the fall of this year, the malaysian constitutional court said that this law is okay, that it is in line with the malaysian constitution. we see that this is a very clear political decision of the constitutional court there. the second problem is the image of criminal law. today, there are up to a thousand people in malaysian prisons awaiting execution. the penal code there is very vague. i therefore agree with what my colleagues have said. we need to communicate with malaysia, we need to cooperate, but we should only make deals with malaysia if it is willing to fix its rule of law and remove laws that do not make malaysia a rule of law.
the commission mr president, the lack of freedom of expression, religious oppression, discrimination against indigenous peoples and migrants in malaysia is now on the agenda. the malaysian government, under the pretext of countering terrorism, arrests and, on national security grounds, indefinitely imprisons any person deemed a suspect, and arrests of human rights activists are common. furthermore, the government of the country has imposed restrictions on freedom of speech and therefore it has been ranked as one of the worst countries in terms of freedom of expression, a country where sharia is applied. the cases where malaysian authorities have imposed sanctions on publications that oppose the government are numerous. the european union calls on the government of malaysia to reverse the second insurgency law and to guarantee the rights to freedom of expression, assembly and all those based on the international covenant on civil and political rights.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the as revealed by a complaint from an ngo and after inspections by the us environmental protection agency, more than 8 million volkswagen cars are on the road in europe with illegal software. it was also found that as early as 2013, the european commission had identified discrepancies between reported and actual emissions without doing anything. the facts show the inability of the union and the national audit authorities to enforce the laws effectively. i therefore think it is necessary for parliament to set up a committee of inquiry to find out what really happened and who is responsible for the cover-up.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report because i believe that the least the european parliament can do is to set up a committee of inquiry, since it has not yet succeeded in putting an end to the illegality and arbitrariness of multinational companies, especially the car industry.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry, its powers, number of members and term of office, because i consider it to be complete and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the european parliament should set up a committee of inquiry, since no one else has so far succeeded in stopping the illegality and arbitrariness of multinational companies, especially the car companies.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the agreement with vietnam strengthens cooperation with the european union by helping the country on the path towards better governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the fight against corruption, and touches on issues such as progress on social rights, environmental protection and respect for the principle of sustainable development. for these reasons i voted in favour of the protocol to take account of croatia's accession to the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have today voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. although eu relations with vietnam have been positive for a long time and vietnam is one of our key partners in the south east asian region, this framework agreement includes issues of strengthening free trade, neoliberal policies and political balances, which i do not agree with and for which reason i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ it is proposed that the report be voted on as it has been established that increasing the number of parties to agreements in no way favours the new party but the strong partners.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the eu-vietnam comprehensive partnership and cooperation framework agreement, because it has been proven that the enlargement of the parties to the agreements in no way favours the new party but the strong partners.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and the member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, because i do not consider it to be complete or substantiated.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the extension of the agreements to the contracting parties in no way favours the new party but the strong partners.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the agreement with vietnam strengthens cooperation with the european union by helping the country on the path towards better governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the fight against corruption, and touches on issues such as progress on social rights, environmental protection and respect for the principle of sustainable development. i have voted in favour of the agreement for the reasons stated above.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. although eu relations with vietnam have been in a positive state for a long time and vietnam is one of our key partners in the south east asian region, this framework agreement includes issues of strengthening free trade, neoliberal policies and political balances which i am opposed to and for this reason i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the approval of the eu-vietnam comprehensive partnership and cooperation framework agreement, because it has been proven that the enlargement of the parties to the agreements in no way favours the incoming party but the strong partners.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, because it is not complete or substantiated and i refer further to the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 16/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ increasing the number of parties to agreements in no way favours the new party but the strong partners.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the agreement with vietnam strengthens cooperation with the european union by helping the country on the path towards better governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the fight against corruption, and touches on issues such as progress on social rights, environmental protection and respect for the principle of sustainable development. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution accompanying the agreement.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted today on the report on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. although eu relations with vietnam have been in a positive state for a long time and vietnam is one of our key partners in the south east asian region, this framework agreement includes issues of strengthening free trade, neoliberal policies and political balances which i am opposed to and for this reason i have decided to abstain.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, because it welcomes the recognition of same-sex marriage.
in writing. ‒ the comprehensive partnership cooperation agreement (pca) with vietnam concerns science, migration, tourism and culture topics. vietnam has undertaken some reforms in order to reach a socialist-oriented market economy status. at the same time, vietnam and the european union have reached a trade agreement in 2015, the free trade agreement (fta). both agreements, fta and pca, have some positive impact regarding the justice system and fight against corruption. however, vietnam should ratify the ilo convention and implement gender equality and reforms in public administration. this is why i voted abstention.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report containing the proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam, as i do not consider it to be complete or substantiated, and i refer further to the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 16 december 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report welcomes the recognition of same-sex marriage.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this resolution follows the report by the five presidents (european commission, european council, european central bank, eurogroup and european parliament) on the completion of emu and the package presented by the european commission on 21 october with the first implementing measures of the report. the resolution expresses parliament's dissatisfaction with the lack of democratic dialogue. the presence of the president of the eurogroup for the first time in a plenary session was a positive step, but there must be a substantive follow-up. the years of crisis have shown that the european union, and emu in particular, suffers from a democratic deficit. the role of parliament must also be strengthened by effective participation in decision-making and by the acquisition of elective powers. it is positive that measures such as the creation of a european deposit guarantee facility are being promoted, which will strengthen the european banking system and contribute to the completion of the banking union. however, it should be noted that the measures which would have really strengthened the governance of emu, making it a real economic and monetary union with social characteristics, are lacking. i have to say that i am not in favour of the motion for a resolution.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the motion for a resolution on the completion of economic and monetary union in europe relates to parliament's reaction to the proposal from the com. although there are positive elements in the proposal, such as the criticism of the lack of a right of opinion of parliament, i nevertheless believe that in practice there must be radical changes in the framework of emu and that particular emphasis should be placed on strengthening the social dimension. that is why i have decided to vote against the resolution. more generally, democratisation and transparency, including the role of the ep, can help to improve the current framework, which is not reflected in this resolution.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the adoption of the euro has led to significant divergences between member states, which have increased structural imbalances between them and caused a recession distortion in the countries of the european union. a new credit policy must be put in place to deal with the problem of over-indebtedness and insolvency affecting thousands of families in the member states. the stability and convergence programmes must also be abolished to deal with the continuing recession in weak economies.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the adoption of the euro led to significant imbalances between member states, which increased structural imbalances between them and caused a recession distortion in the countries of the european union. a new credit policy must be put in place to tackle the problem of over-indebtedness and insolvency affecting thousands of families in the member states and stability and convergence programmes must be abolished to deal with the continuing recession in weak economies.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is based on the five presidents’ report. it is the first resolution of the european parliament after the latest emu proposal. moreover, parliament does not have time to comment before the council on any recommendation of the commission. another negative aspect of the resolution is that it legitimises the european economic framework as such. i voted against since this resolution does not give parliamentary control to the emu and does not improve the emu.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the completion of the european economic and monetary union because, in my view, it is neither complete nor well-founded, and i refer further to the reasons i set out in detail in my speech on 15/12/2015 to the european parliament's plenary.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the adoption of the euro led to significant divergences between member states, which further exacerbated structural imbalances between them and caused a recession in the countries of the european union. a new credit policy must be put in place to tackle the problem of over-indebtedness and insolvency affecting thousands of families in the member states, and stability and convergence programmes must be abolished to deal with the continuing recession affecting weak economies.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the completion of the european economic and monetary union, because the proposal of the committee on economic and monetary affairs rightly points out the weaknesses of the institutional framework of the euro area and the lack of credible and regular parliamentary scrutiny.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the european union must put the promotion of human rights at the heart of its external action. the report, which i voted in favour of, stresses the need for better coordination between the various services of the commission and between the various instruments at its disposal. specific reference is made to the need to respect the rights of women and children, including the right to abortion, lgbt rights, social rights, the refugee crisis, and the need to create humanitarian corridors.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter addresses a particularly important area on which to focus our attention in order to promote democratic ideals and socially correct attitudes. despite the problems, which are not negligible, such as foreign policy issues, cases of intervention in third countries, the dialogue on religious issues and the issue of 'prisoners of conscience', the resolution contains positive elements, for example, by stressing the urgent need to address the root causes of migration flows and underlining the need for an integrated approach to migration based on human rights, and these positive elements have led me to vote in favour of the report.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i find the resolution as a whole to be negative because the meaning of true democracy has nothing to do with what the 'democrats' of today are promoting. their respect for human rights is selective and their notions of freedom create a society of their own from which patriots and anyone who loves their country are excluded. the world they want to build goes through the destruction of tradition and peoples.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the report on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter, because the meaning of democracy really has nothing to do with what today's 'democrats' are promoting. the way they respect human rights is selective and with their choices about freedom they create a society of their own - except for the occasional patriot and anyone who loves his country. the world they want to build means the destruction of tradition and peoples.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area, as it is not complete or well documented. i also refer to the arguments i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 16 december 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has voted against the report because its main concern is the propaganda of the non-existent values espoused by the eu. the eu is also exploiting this sector, invoking the 'human rights clause' in its relations with third countries, especially in trade, in order to be able to implement its anti-people policy, to promote its monopolies so that they dominate new markets and to provide pretexts for its imperialist interventions that shed blood among peoples. it is also presented as the arbiter of all things, with the method of imposing 'restrictive measures' on anyone who does not comply. it is itself buying the eeas, the eu's tool for promoting its anti-people strategy and imperialist aggression, as a 'protagonist'. the report defiantly states that 'trade and human rights can go hand in hand' and that the business community has an important role to play in promoting human rights and democracy, when the basic aim of business groups and a condition of their profitability is the trampling of workers' and people's rights. the peoples will only win and secure their rights and satisfy all their needs when they take power and become the owners of the wealth they produce, only after they have achieved their liberation from the eu and the other imperialist alliances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the meaning of democracy really has nothing to do with what today's "democrats" promote. their respect for human rights is selective and their conceptions of freedom create a society of their own from which those who are patriotic and love their country are excluded. the world they want to build goes through the destruction of tradition and peoples.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i myself supported the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area because i believe that respect for and protection of human rights must be a top priority for all union action.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has voted against the report, as its main concern is the propaganda of the non-existent values espoused by the eu. the eu is even exploiting this sector by invoking the 'human rights clause' in its relations - especially trade relations - with third countries in order to be able to implement its anti-people policy, to promote its monopolies in order to dominate new markets and to find pretexts for its imperialist interventions that shed blood among the peoples. it presents itself as the arbiter of everything and plans to impose 'restrictive measures' on anyone who does not comply. the eeas is becoming a 'protagonist' - that is, the eu's main tool - for promoting its anti-people strategy and imperialist aggression. the report defiantly states that 'trade and human rights can go hand in hand' and that the business community has an important role to play in promoting human rights and democracy, at a time when the basic aim of business groups and a prerequisite of their profitability is the crushing of workers' and people's rights. the peoples will only win and secure their rights and satisfy all their needs when they take power and become the owners of the wealth they produce, and only after they have been freed from the eu and the other imperialist alliances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ bosnia and herzegovina must be abolished as a single state and croats and serbs must be reunited with their mother countries. the european union must not allow the turkish government to continue to use its influence in the region as a means of ensuring that the people of bosnia-herzegovina are not subjected to the same treatment as the rest of the muslim world.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the reports on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement as i believe that bosnia and herzegovina should be abolished as a single state and that croat serbs should be reunited with their mother countries. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus. we must cut the umbilical cord that connects it to turkey and saudi arabia, so that it does not develop into a new islamic state within europe.
in writing. ‒ november 2015 marks the 20th anniversary of the dayton agreement. the agreement established a peace implementation council; however, the agreement complicated the decision-making and left the ethnic groups unsatisfied with the results. i voted abstention, since i believe that this agreement is obsolete. it is also important to give back ownership to the people of bosnia and herzegovina to determine their own political future and end the international protectorate.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement because it is complete and well documented.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ bosnia-herzegovina must be abolished as a single state and croats and serbs must be reunited with their mother countries. as for the remaining muslim bosnia, it must be completely isolated and we must cut off the umbilical cord linking it to turkey and saudi arabia, so that it does not develop into a new islamic state within europe.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the on the one hand, the report wants to ban arms exports to war zones and on the other hand it does not recognise that the major powers of the eu, but also the driving force of its foreign policy, namely the usa, have supplied half the terrorist organisations in the world with arms. we believe it is unrealistic for the eu to require member states to report to it the details of exports of defence material because often these, for reasons of national security of both buyer and seller, must not be disclosed. the report also calls russia an enemy of the eu. we believe that the member states should cooperate and conclude agreements with third countries when it is in their interests to do so. the fact that the united states or germany see russia as a competitor does not mean that it cannot be a partner for many other states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the on the one hand, the report wants to ban arms exports to war zones and, on the other, it does not recognise the fact that the major powers of the eu and the driving force of its foreign policy, the usa, have supplied arms to half the terrorist organisations in the world. i am opposed to the report on arms exports, as i think it is unrealistic for the eu to require member states to report to it the details of exports of defence equipment, which, for reasons of national security (buyer and seller) in particular, should not be disclosed. the report also calls russia an enemy of the eu. i believe that the member states should cooperate and conclude agreements with third countries when they are in their own interests. the fact that the united states or germany see russia as a competitor does not mean that it cannot be a partner for many other states.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the report on arms exports: implementation of common position 2008/944 cfsp because it is comprehensive and well-founded, and for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament on 16/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the on the one hand, the report wants to ban arms exports to war zones and on the other hand it does not recognise that the major powers of the eu, but also the driving force of its foreign policy, namely the usa, have supplied half the terrorist organisations in the world with arms. we believe it is unrealistic for the eu to require member states to report to it the details of exports of defence material because often these, for reasons of national security of both buyer and seller, must not be disclosed. the report also calls russia an enemy of the eu. we believe that the member states should cooperate and conclude agreements with third countries when it is in their interests to do so. the fact that the united states or germany see russia as a competitor does not mean that it cannot be a partner for many other states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against the motion for a resolution because it clearly separates organic farming from free farming and seeks to protect it from large multinationals and genetically modified organisms.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on patents and plant variety rights because it is comprehensive and well-founded and i refer further to the reasons i listed in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 17 december 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the resolution clearly distinguishes between free organic farming and protects it against large multinationals and genetically modified organisms.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the joint resolution on the situation in burundi contains a number of positive elements. strongly condemns the recent violent attacks and the increasing incidents of human rights violations and abuses, urges all parties to create the necessary conditions for restoring confidence and strengthening national unity, and calls for respect for the african charter on human and peoples' rights and for concrete measures to put an end to the violence. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the burundi, like most other african countries, has been colonized by the germans and the belgians. after the end of colonial exploitation, the transition to freedom and democracy did not go smoothly. especially the hutu and tutsi differences still roil the country. the current regime is far from being a rule of law. the constitution of the country is broken, there is no welfare state and no respect for human, civil and political rights and fundamental freedoms. it needs immediate restoration of peace and calm. the deteriorating humanitarian situation requires an urgent and optimal solution and, in order to protect the christian population, which accounts for more than 60% of the total, the un-led mission of the cyanogency to preserve and enforce peace is necessary.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the burundi, like most other african countries, has been a colony, in this case german and belgian. after colonial-style exploitation, the transition to freedom and democracy did not go smoothly. especially the hutu and tutsi differences continue to shake the country over time. the current regime is far from being a rule of law. the constitution of the country is broken, there is no welfare state and no respect for human, civil and political rights and fundamental freedoms. i therefore vote against all the reports. it needs immediate restoration of peace and calm. the deteriorating humanitarian situation requires an urgent and optimal solution and, in order to protect the christian population, which accounts for over 60%, peace enforcement and peace keeping forces must be sent to the country under the auspices of the united nations high commissioner for refugees.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi, both because it is comprehensive and well-founded and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 25 november 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the burundi, like most other african countries, was a colony of the germans and the belgians. after colonial-style exploitation, the transition to freedom and democracy did not go smoothly. in particular, hutu and tutsi differences still shake the country. the current regime is far from being a rule of law. the constitution of the country is broken, there is no welfare state and there is no respect for human, civil and political rights and fundamental freedoms. it needs immediate restoration of peace and calm. the deteriorating humanitarian situation requires an urgent and optimal solution and the deployment of a un-led peacekeeping force to protect the christian population, which accounts for over 60% of the total population.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of the congo is a very positive initiative whose only aim is to ensure the preservation of a unesco protected world heritage site. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not overstretched, and that the community's fishing fleet is not overstretched. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is the duty of every country to respect the environment and to take all necessary measures to preserve it, especially when it comes to areas designated as world heritage sites. but i think it is unacceptable that the eu should try to intervene in the internal affairs of a country, especially when it comes to exploiting its natural resources to develop its economy, when companies in its member states are responsible for large-scale natural disasters worldwide.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is the duty of every country to respect the environment and to take all necessary measures to preserve it, especially for areas designated as world heritage sites. but i think it is unacceptable that the eu should try to intervene in the internal affairs of a country, especially when it comes to exploiting its natural resources to develop its economy, when companies from its member states are responsible for large-scale natural disasters worldwide. for these reasons, i am voting against the report on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. ‒ the virunga national park is a unesco world heritage site and africa’s most biodiverse park. irreversible damage could be done to the park as a result of exploration and exploitation of oil and other illegal activities. the eu is in a position to coordinate a diplomatic response from eu member states, to help the drc government to address armed conflicts and support sustainable development in the vnp. the commission must put in place a mechanism to ensure enforcement of the recommendations of the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and to ensure that foreign investors comply with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. as a vp of the deve committee and shadow rapporteur i voted in favour.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of the congo because i consider it to be complete and well-founded, and for the reasons which i have set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is the duty of every country to respect the environment and to take all necessary measures to preserve it, especially when it comes to areas designated as world heritage sites. but i think it is unacceptable that the eu should try to intervene in the internal affairs of a country, especially when it comes to exploiting its natural resources to develop its economy, when companies in its member states are responsible for large-scale natural disasters worldwide.
